The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Galaxy, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Galaxy
       Vol. XXIII--March, 1877.--No. 3

Author: Various

Release Date: January 29, 2011 [EBook #35112]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ISO-8859-1

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GALAXY ***




Produced by Carol Ann Brown, Barbara Tozier, Bill Tozier
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
https://www.pgdp.net.









  THE GALAXY.




  VOL. XXIII.--MARCH, 1877.--No. 3.


Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1877, by SHELDON &
CO., in the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.




  THE ENGLISH PEERAGE.


More than one reader must have felt impatient with Milton for spoiling
the fine epitaph on the Marchioness of Winchester with such unfortunate
lines as "A Viscount's daughter, an Earl's heir," and "No Marchioness,
but now a queen." Probably the expressions sounded less absurd to his
contemporaries than they do to us, for titles of nobility, however
unworthily conferred, had more significance in the reign of James I.
than they bear in the reign of Queen Victoria. The memorable despatch in
which Collingwood announced the victory of Trafalgar, and which has been
described by great writers as a masterpiece of simple narration began
with these words: "Sir: The ever to be lamented death of Vice Admiral
Lord Viscount Nelson, in the moment of victory," etc. Now peers of all
ranks, except the highest, are commonly spoken of under the general
designation of "Lord So-and-So," and are rarely accorded in conversation
the honors of "my lord," or "your lordship." Generally speaking, it may
be said that in England titles, like decorations, are still greedily
sought after, but when won are not openly displayed. They are felt by
their bearers to be an anachronism, though no doubt a sufficiently
agreeable one to those most immediately concerned.

Successive governments give as large a share of patronage to the peers
and baronets, and their kinsfolk, as they reasonably can; while the
Premier is only too glad to select men of rank as his colleagues in the
Cabinet, if they are only possessed of decent abilities, and will
work--for a minister must be a hard worker in these days. Thus, Mr.
Gladstone's administration, the first which was ever designated as
"Radical," contained a large proportion of the aristocratic element in
its ranks, though it was even made a charge against Mr. Gladstone by
conservative and pseudo-liberal papers, that he unjustly deprived the
peerage of its due representation in the Cabinet.

As a matter of fact, when the Cabinet resigned it consisted of sixteen
members. Of these, eight were peers or sons of peers. Of the remaining
thirty-six Parliamentary members of the administration, fourteen were
peers or sons of peers. Mr. Disraeli's Cabinet numbers but twelve
ministers. Of these six are peers, another is heir presumptive to a
dukedom; while an eighth is a baronet; and of the remaining members of
the administration, nineteen out of thirty-eight are peers, baronets, or
sons of peers. In the army and navy, in the diplomatic service, the
peerage equally secures its full share of prizes; and even in the legal
profession it is far from being a disadvantage to a young barrister that
his name figures in the pages of Burke. In the Church a large proportion
of the best livings are held by members of the same privileged class,
and even the Stock Exchange lately showed itself eager to confer such
honors as were in its gift on a duke's son, who had been courageous
enough to "go into trade."

The British aristocracy is still, therefore, "a fact," if a favorite
term of Mr. Carlyle's may be permitted in such a connexion, as it
probably may, for the author of "The French Revolution" has himself been
one of the latest eulogists of the governing families of England, and
perhaps a few notes on the origin and history of some of the principal
houses may not be unacceptable to American readers.

The House of Lords, as at present constituted, consists of something
less than five hundred temporal peers. The first in order of hereditary
precedence, after the princes of the blood royal, is the Duke of
Norfolk, a blameless young gentleman of eight-and-twenty years, and a
zealous Catholic, as it is generally supposed that a Howard is compelled
to be by a mysterious law of his nature. As a matter of fact, however,
no family in England has changed its religion so often. Henry Charles,
thirteenth duke, seceded from the Church of Rome on the occasion of the
papal aggression. He declared himself convinced that "ultramontane
opinions were totally incompatible with allegiance to the sovereign and
the Constitution." The Duke's expression of opinion might have had more
weight with his coreligionists had his own reputation for wisdom stood
higher. But it stood very low. His Grace had made himself very
conspicuous during the agitation for the repeal of the corn laws by
recommending a curry powder of his own manufacture as a substitute for
bread, which singular piece of advice to a starving people earned him
the sobriquet of "Curry Norfolk." Charles, eleventh duke, also renounced
the old faith about the year 1780. He had not yet succeeded to his
title, but was known as the Earl of Surrey; was immediately returned to
Parliament for one of his father's boroughs. (The dukes of Norfolk had
eleven boroughs at their disposition before the passing of the reform
bill.) He was a notable personage in his day, and acted in concert with
the party of Fox. For giving the toast of "The people, our Sovereign,"
at a public dinner he was deprived of his lord-lieutenancy and of his
colonelcy of militia. He was remarkable, too, for a dislike of clean
linen, which his friends were grieved to see him carry to excess.[A]
Three other Howards of the same stock are more honorably distinguished
in their country's annals. They are the victor of Flodden and two of his
grandsons; the one the Surrey of history and romance, the other, Charles
Lord Howard of Effingham, the conqueror of the Spanish Armada. The
origin of the family is involved in obscurity, some maintaining that it
sprung from the famous Hereward, the Wake, of whose name they affirm
Howard to be a corruption; while others assert that the word Howard is
neither more nor less than a euphonious form of Hogward, and that the
premier duke and hereditary Earl Marshal of England might ultimately
trace his descent to a swineherd if he were disposed so to do. The first
Howard of whom genealogists can take serious cognizance was a
respectable judge of the court of common pleas in the reigns of Edward
I. and Edward II. (1297-1308). His descendant was ennobled in the reign
of Edward IV.

[Footnote A: "Did your Grace ever try a clean shirt?" Abernethy is said
to have asked the Duke, who had consulted him on some ailment.]

Next on the roll of the Lords to the Duke of Norfolk is Edward St. Maur,
the Duke of Somerset, an extremely clever man, "with a passion for
saying disagreeable things." He recently published a smart attack on the
evidences of Christianity, which occasioned not a little difficulty to
some worthy editors. They were sincere Christians, but it jarred against
their feelings to speak harshly of a duke. The St. Maurs (or Seymours)
are of genuine Norman descent, and began to be heard of in the
thirteenth century. They apparently remained estimable till the time of
Henry VIII., when that uxorious monarch married Jane, the daughter of
Sir John Seymour, by whom he became the father of Edward VI. Strangely
enough, Jane's brother, Lord Seymour of Sudeley, afterward married
Henry's widow, and the knot of family relationships becomes a little
complicated in consequence. More inauspicious unions were never
contracted. Lord Seymour was executed by order of his brother, the
Protector (and first Duke of Somerset), and three years later the
Protector's death-warrant was signed by his own nephew. From the close
of this short chronicle of blood, the Seymours practically disappear
from the pages of English history, though Macaulay has left a graphic
picture of that Sir Edward Seymour who was Speaker of the House of
Commons under Charles II., and who proudly replied to William III., when
asked if he belonged to the Duke of Somerset's family, that "the Duke of
Somerset belonged to his family." Francis, fifth duke, was the occasion
of a few days' gossip and much scandal. During his travels in Italy he
visited the convent of the Augustinians at Lerice, where he was foolish
enough to offer an impertinence to some ladies of the family of Botti,
and was shot by an angry Signor Botti a few hours later. His brother
Charles, who succeeded him, is the hero of a less tragic story. His
second wife, Lady Charlotte Finch, once tapped him with her fan, when he
is said to have rebuked her in these terms: "Madam, my first wife was a
Percy, and she never ventured to take such a liberty." He was known
among his contemporaries as "the proud Duke of Somerset."

The next of the ducal houses in order of precedence traces its descent
from Charles II. and Louisa de Querouaille, "whom our rude ancestors
called Madam Carwell." The Dukes of Richmond have always been known as
honorable gentlemen, but they have left no mark on the political history
of England. The present Duke is perhaps the most distinguished man of
his family, being leader of the Conservative party in the House of
Lords, and, as is generally thought, Mr. Disraeli's destined successor
in the Premiership. The third Duke held high office in the early part of
the reign of George III.; while his nephew, Colonel Lennox, who
afterward succeeded him in the title, had the honor of fighting a duel
with a son of George III. Neither of the combatants suffered any hurt,
and Colonel Lennox was reserved for the most melancholy of deaths;
falling, thirty years after, a victim to hydrophobia, caused by the bite
of a dog. His royal antagonist was Frederic, Duke of York, who
subsequently became Commander-in-Chief of the British army in the most
inglorious period of its annals. Indeed, so disgraceful was his Royal
Highness's conduct of the campaign of 1794, that Pitt demanded one of
two things from the King; viz., either that the Prince should be brought
before a court-martial, or that the Prime Minister should in future have
the right of appointing to great military commands. It must have cost
George III. a bitter pang to accept the latter alternative.

The Duke of Grafton, who holds the fourth place on Garter's Roll, is
equally descended from his Majesty, King Charles II., of happy memory.
Henry Fitzroy, son of Barbara Villiers (created Duchess of Cleveland),
was raised to the highest rank in the peerage, as Duke of Grafton, in
1675. He was one of the first to desert his uncle's cause in 1688, and
two years later he died a soldier's death under the walls of Cork,
fighting for William III. and the liberties of England. His great
grandson was Augustus Henry, third Duke of Grafton, who may still be
seen gibbeted in the pages of Junius. His Grace was a member of
Chatham's second ministry, and succeeded his chief in the Premiership.
Of other Dukes of Grafton history makes no special mention.

The fifth of the dukes in order of precedence quarters the royal arms of
France and England, but without the bâton sinister. Henry Charles
Fitzroy Somerset, Duke of Beaufort, is lineally descended from "_old_
John of Gaunt, time-honored Lancaster" (third son of Edward III.) and
Catherine Swinford. John of Gaunt's children by this union were
afterward legitimatized by act of Parliament. Henry, the second son,
took holy orders, and became Bishop of Lincoln, and afterward of
Winchester, as well as Cardinal and Lord Chancellor. He is the Cardinal
Beaufort who figures in the stately Gallery of Shakespeare. He and his
brothers took the name they bore from the Castle of Beaufort, in Anjou,
the place of their nativity. The Cardinal's elder brother was created
Earl and afterward Marquis of Somerset. His descendant, Henry Beaufort,
Duke of Somerset, fell into the hands of the Yorkists, at the battle of
Hexham, and was succeeded in the family honors by his brother Edmund,
who was soon to share the same fate. With him the legitimate male line
of John of Gaunt became extinct. Duke Henry, however, had left a natural
son, who was called Charles Somerset, and who, to use the appropriate
language of chronological dictionaries, "flourished" in the reigns of
Henry VII. and Henry VIII. He was a brave soldier and a skilful
diplomatist; having been chosen a Knight of the Garter; he was also
appointed captain of the King's Guards for his services. Sir Charles
Somerset obtained in marriage Elizabeth, daughter and heiress of William
Herbert, Earl of Huntingdon, and Lord Herbert of Rayland, Chepston, and
Gower; and, in his wife's right, was summoned to Parliament as Lord
Herbert, in the first year of Henry VIII. In 1514 he was advanced to the
Earldom of Worcester, having previously been constituted Lord
Chamberlain for life, as a reward for the distinguished part he had in
the taking of Terouenne and Tournay. He died in 1526, and was succeeded
by his son. Little is heard of the Somersets--Earls of Worcester--during
the sixteenth century, though the marriage of two ladies of that house
called forth the well-known Epithalamium of Spenser. Henry, the fifth
earl, created Marquis of Worcester by Charles I., is celebrated in
English history for his defence of Rayland castle against the forces of
the Parliament, under Sir Thomas Fairfax. On this subject, Mr. George
MacDonald's last novel of "St. George and St. Michael" may be consulted
with advantage.

The brave old cavalier did not long survive the surrender and
destruction of his ancestral home. The same year he died, and was
succeeded in his title by his son Edward, the famous author of the
"Century of Inventions." It is scarcely too much to say that had this
man been divested of rank and fortune, and had he been furnished with
the requisite motive for exertion, he might have anticipated the work of
Watt and Stephenson. As it was, the discoveries he made served but to
amuse his leisure hours. The Marquis of Worcester was well-nigh the last
of his race about whose doings his countrymen would much care to be
informed. His son was created Duke of Beaufort in 1682, and with the
attainment of the highest rank in the peerage came a cessation of mental
activity in the family. One more Somerset, however, deserves honorable
mention--Fitzroy, who was aide-de-camp to Wellington, and lost an arm at
Waterloo. Raised to the peerage in 1852 as Lord Raglan, he was named two
years later to the command of the English army in the Crimea. What he
did, and what he did not, in that post, is still remembered. In truth he
was a gallant soldier, distracted by contradictory instructions, feeling
keenly the criticisms of newspaper writers, who complained that one of
the strongest fortresses in the world was not taken in a few weeks. The
siege had lasted eight months, when Lord Raglan resolved to make one
desperate effort to carry the place by assault on the 18th of June, the
fortieth anniversary of Waterloo. The attack failed, and the allies were
repulsed with severe loss. Ten days later the English general succumbed
to sickness and chagrin.

The Dukes of St. Albans enjoy precedence after the Dukes of Beaufort.
William Amelius Aubrey De Vere Beauclerk, present and tenth duke, is
lineally descended from the Merry Monarch and Nell Gwynn, and through
the marriage of the first duke, from the De Veres, Earls of Oxford. His
Grace is Hereditary Grand Falconer, a pleasant little sinecure of some
$6,000 a year. Of the Dukes of Saint Albans history has nothing to say.
The ninth duke married the widow of Mr. Thomas Coutts, of banking
renown.

Next on Garter's roll comes the Duke of Leeds, lineally descended from
Thomas Osborne, Earl of Danby and Lord High Treasurer under Charles II.,
whom Dutch William afterward made Duke of Leeds. Danby (for he is better
known by this title than by the one which he dishonored) must be
considered to have been an average statesman, and even a patriot, as
public spirit then went. He steadily opposed French influence under
Charles II., and afterward contributed to the success of the Revolution.
He was subsequently impeached by the Commons for taking bribes, but the
principal witness on whom the House relied to substantiate the charge
mysteriously disappeared when most wanted. From that day, however, the
Duke of Leeds was morally extinguished. The subsequent Dukes led worthy
and honorable lives, but were not otherwise notable. The seventh married
(24th of April, 1828) an American lady, Louisa Catharine, third daughter
of Mr. Richard Caton of Maryland, and widow of Sir Felton Bathurst
Hervey.

The two next of the ducal houses, those of Bedford and Devonshire, are
invested by Whig writers with almost a halo of glory, though in truth
they have produced respectable rather than great men. The beginnings of
the house of Russell are somewhat curious. One of the earliest ancestors
of the family of whom anything is accurately known was Speaker of the
House of Commons in the second and tenth years of Henry VI. His
grandson, John Russell, a gentleman of property, resided at Berwick,
about four miles from Bridport, in the county of Dorset. He was a
bookish man, and would probably never have gone to seek out fortune; but
fortune, as is her wont, came to him in the person of the Archduke
Philip of Austria. This Prince, the son of the reckless Maximilian,
having encountered a violent hurricane in his passage from Flanders to
Spain, was driven into Weymouth, where he landed, and was hospitably
received by a Sir Thomas Trenchard, who immediately wrote to court for
instructions. Meanwhile he deputed his first cousin, Mr. Russell, to
wait upon the Prince. His Highness was so fascinated by the conversation
of Mr. Russell, that he begged that gentleman to accompany him to
Windsor, where he spoke of him in such high terms to the King (Henry
VII.), that the monarch at once took him into his favor. He subsequently
accompanied Henry VIII. in his French wars, and afterward becoming a
supple instrument of his master's ecclesiastical policy, was rewarded
with a peerage and a grant of the Abbey of Tavistock, and the extensive
lands thereto belonging. To these possessions the Protector Somerset
added the monastery of Woburn and the Earldom of Bedford. Nor did the
star of John Russell grow dim under the reign of the Catholic Mary, who
named him Lord Privy Seal, and Ambassador to Spain, to conduct Philip
II. to England. He died in 1555. From him were descended various
Russells who enjoyed as many of the good things of this life as they
could decently lay hands upon, and two of whom were famous men in their
day. William, Lord Russell, is best known to posterity as the husband of
the admirable Rachael Wriothesley, daughter of Thomas, Earl of
Southampton, and widow of Francis, Lord Vaughan. With respect to his
execution there has been some difference of opinion; but the probability
is that it was a judicial murder of the worst kind. Immediately after
the Revolution, Lord Russell's attainder was reversed by Parliament. His
widow survived him forty years, and lived to see George I. on the throne
and the Protestant succession firmly established. What is not so
generally known, perhaps, is that the mother of Lord Russell was the
daughter of Carr, Earl of Somerset, by the divorced wife of Essex. She
was herself a virtuous lady, and is said to have fallen down in a fit
when she first learned the horrible details of her family history.

Lord Russell's cousin was the victor of La Hogue, created Earl of Orford
in 1697. He died in 1727 without issue, when the title became
extinct--to be renewed fifteen years later in favor of Sir Robert
Walpole.

Lord Russell's father was created Duke of Bedford by William III., May
11, 1694. He was succeeded by his grandson, Wriothesley, who was married
at the ripe age of fourteen and elevated to a separate peerage the same
year. He had previously been requested to come forward as a candidate
for the county of Middlesex; but the prudent Lady Russell refused to
allow him. In the then state of public opinion he would have been
elected without opposition.

The eighteenth century was the golden age of Whig families, at least
till George III. became king, and the house of Russell continued to
provide the country with a succession of dignified placemen. John IV.,
Duke of Bedford, was Lord Lieutenant of Ireland in 1756. In 1762 his
Grace, as the plenipotentiary of England, signed the preliminaries of
peace at Fontainebleau with France and Spain--a work on which he can
scarcely be congratulated, seeing that by it England was juggled out of
nearly every advantage she had won by seven years of victory. The Duke's
son, Francis, called by courtesy Marquis of Tavistock, married Lady
Elizabeth Keppel, who literally died of grief when her husband was
killed by a fall from his horse. Dr. Johnson's characteristic comment on
this event was that if her ladyship had been a poor washerwoman with
twelve children to mind, she would have had no time to die of grief.
Lord Tavistock left three sons, Francis and John, successively fifth and
sixth Dukes of Bedford, and William (posthumous), the unfortunate
nobleman who, within living memory, was murdered by his French valet
Courvoisier.

John, Earl Russell, the distinguished statesman who "upset the coach,"
is a son of the sixth duke, Lord Odo Russell, one of the ablest of
modern diplomatists, a grandson of the same peer.

On the day after the head of the house of Russell was raised to ducal
rank, the head of the Cavendishes received the same honor, being created
Marquis of Hartington and Duke of Devonshire. This family claims descent
from Sir John Cavendish, Lord Chief Justice of England in 1366, 1373,
and 1377. "In the fourth year of Richard II. his lordship was elected
chancellor of the university of Cambridge, and was next year
commissioned, with Robert de Hales, treasurer of England, to suppress
the insurrection raised in the city of York, in which year the mob,
having risen to the number of fifty thousand, made it a point,
particularly in the county of Suffolk, to plunder and murder the
lawyers; and being incensed in a more than ordinary degree against the
Chief Justice Cavendish, his son John having killed the notorious Wat
Tyler, they seized upon and dragged him, with Sir John of Cambridge,
prior of Bury, into the marketplace of that town, and there caused both
to be beheaded." Thus far Burke, who has small sympathy to bestow on Wat
Tyler, albeit that reformer was murdered in a cowardly way, whether it
were Walworth or Cavendish who struck the blow. "For William Walworth,
mayor of London, having arrested him (Wat Tyler), he furiously struck
the mayor with his dagger, but being armed [_i.e._ the mayor being in
armor], hurt him not; whereupon the mayor, drawing his baselard,
grievously wounded Wat in the neck; in which conflict an esquire of the
King's house, called John Cavendish, drew his sword and wounded him
twice or thrice, even unto death. For which service Cavendish was
knighted in Smithfield, and had a grant of £40 per annum from the King."
The great-great-grandson of this Sir John Cavendish was gentleman usher
to Cardinal Wolsey; after the death of his master King Henry took him
into his own employment, to reward him for the fidelity with which he
had served his former patron. His elder brother William was in 1530
appointed one of the commissioners for visiting and taking the
surrenders of divers religious houses. Needless to add that from that
day Mr. Cavendish had but to do as the King told him and make his
fortune. Before his death he had begun to build the noble seat of
Chatsworth, in Derbyshire, which his descendants still possess. His
second son, and eventual heir, was created Earl of Devonshire by King
James I. in 1618. The first earl's nephew was the renowned cavalier
general created Marquis and subsequently Duke of Newcastle. He was at
one time governor of the Prince of Wales (afterward Charles II.), and
there is a touching epistle extant in which his youthful charge entreats
the Marquis that he may not be compelled to take physic, which he feels
sure would do him no good.

William, fourth earl of Devonshire, although raised to a dukedom by
William III., distinguished himself, as did his son, the Marquis of
Hartington, in the House of Commons, by vehement opposition to the
King's retention of his Dutch guards after the conclusion of peace in
1697; and for this uncourtly conduct the country owes them a deep debt
of gratitude. The Dutch guards were not likely to do much harm, but
foreign troops have no business in a free state.

Henry Cavendish, the eminent chemist and philosopher, was grandson to
the second duke (who married Rachel, daughter of William, Lord Russell).
The present duke was senior wrangler of his year; his eldest son is
leader of the Liberal party in the House of Commons.

Of the dukes of Marlborough, who are next on the list, it is unnecessary
to say much. All the world knows the strange history of John Churchill,
the noblest and the meanest of mankind. The great duke's only son died
of the smallpox while yet a boy; but his honors were made perpetual in
the female as well as the male line. The present duke is lineally
descended on the father's side from a most worthy country gentleman, Sir
Robert Spencer, of Althorp, raised to the peerage as Lord Spencer by
James I. Lord Spencer's name should be dear to every American for the
friendship he showed his neighbors the Washingtons. The Washingtons had
at one time rather a severe struggle to make both ends meet, but they
saw better days. John Washington, the heir of the house, was knighted
and fought for Charles I. in the civil war. Disgusted with the
commonwealth, he emigrated to America, hearing that men were more loyal
on the other side of the Atlantic. He is commonly believed to have been
the ancestor of George Washington. Such is the irony of fate.

The second Duke of Marlborough who, when unwell, would limit himself to
a bottle of brandy a day, proved a real source of danger to his country.
When he succeeded to his grandfather's honors in 1733, the faults of the
victor of Blenheim were forgotten and only his surpassing military
achievements remembered. King and people were alike determined to honor
the man who bore his name, and, it was fondly deemed, inherited his
qualities. He was made lord lieutenant of two counties, a knight of the
garter, and promoted to high military command. Having conducted himself
without discredit at Dettingen, he was thought equal to anything, and in
the year 1758 Pitt, who felt kindly toward the Churchills, and who had
been left £10,000 by Duchess Sarah, was so rash as to name him
commander-in-chief of all the British forces in Germany destined to act
under Prince Ferdinand. After all, the appointment did no harm, for the
Duke died the same year. _Exeunt_ the Dukes of Marlborough into infinite
space. Henceforth they and their doings have no more human interest.

The Dukes of Rutland are another family dating their greatness from a
share in the spoil of the monasteries. Thomas Manners, first Earl of
Rutland, drew one of the best repartees ever made from Sir Thomas More,
then Lord Chancellor. "_Honores mutant mores_," said the Earl to Sir
Thomas in resent for some fancied affront. "Nay, my lord," replied More;
"the pun is better translated into English--Honors change Manners."
Among the descendants of this nobleman two are worthy a passing notice;
viz., John, Marquis of Granby, the most dashing of cavalry officers,
whose bluff features may still be seen on the signboards of many taverns
in England; and Lord John Manners, heir-presumptive to the Dukedom of
Rutland, and a member of the present Cabinet. Lord John is chiefly
famous as the author of a poem in which occur the oft-quoted lines:

  Let arts and learning, laws and commerce die,
  But keep us still our old nobility--

perhaps the most remarkable sentiment ever uttered even by a young man.
It is fair to Lord John Manners to add that he was a fairly successful
Minister of Public Works under two administrations, showing indeed a
good deal of taste and no contempt at all for the arts. Another Manners
was Archbishop of Canterbury from 1805 to 1828; but beyond having an
income of something like $130,000 punctually during nearly a quarter of
a century, this prelate cannot be considered to have done anything
noteworthy. The Archbishop's son was Speaker of the House of Commons
from 1817 to 1834, and was raised to the peerage in 1835 as Viscount
Canterbury--a peerage being the invariable termination of a modern
Speaker's career. The present Lord Canterbury (his son) has been
Governor of Victoria and two or three other colonies; for men do not
belong to a ducal family for nothing.

There are but eleven Dukes of England properly so called; that is, Dukes
sitting in the House of Lords as such, and deriving their titles from
creations before the union with Scotland. The Duke of Norfolk, as before
stated, is the first of these, and the Duke of Rutland the last in order
of precedence. The patent of the latter as Duke bears date March 29,
1703. There are also Dukes of Great Britain and of the United Kingdom,
as well as of Scotland and Ireland; but those of the two sister kingdoms
sit by inferior titles among their peers, and all the Dukes not of
England take precedence among each other by somewhat intricate rules of
precedence, into which it is not worth while to enter. The dukedoms are
twenty-eight in all, exclusive of those held by princes of the blood
royal. The honor has been very sparingly bestowed in late years. The
last conferred by George III. was that of Northumberland, the King
refusing to make any more creations, except in favor of his own
descendants. The Prince Regent made Lord Wellington a duke, and after
his accession to the throne raised Lord Buckingham to the same dignity.
William IV. made two more, and her present Majesty has added an equal
number to the list.

The history of one ducal family is the history of all. They generally
boast a founder of some abilities, and produce one or two men, seldom
more, who leave their mark on the annals of their country. It would be
strange if it were otherwise, considering the enormous opportunities
which a title, joined to fair means, gives to its possessor in England.
The privileges with which acts of Parliament and courtly lawyers in
bygone ages invested the nobility have long since become nominal. A peer
has now no right as such to tender advice to the Queen. If libelled, he
can no more terrify the offender with the penalties of _scandalum
magnatum_, but must content himself with the same remedies as do other
folk; if he cannot be arrested for debt, he shares that privilege with
all the Queen's subjects; and if he continues to be a hereditary member
of the Legislature, it is because the chamber in which he sits has been
reduced to a moderating committee of the sovereign assembly. But the
nameless privileges of persons of rank are great indeed. The army, the
navy, the Church are filled with them or their dependents. Till within
the last few years, the diplomatic service was regarded as their
peculiar property. In the present House of Commons, the second elected
by household suffrage, fully one-third of the members are sons of peers,
baronets, or closely allied by marriage, or otherwise, to the titled
classes. A fair proportion of these are Liberals; the Queen's
son-in-law, Lord Lorne, member for Argyllshire, being a professor of
"Liberal" opinions, as also Lord Stafford, son of the Duke of
Sutherland, and Lord de Gray, son of the Marquis of Ripon. Such Liberals
serve the useful function of "watering" the creed of their party, which
might otherwise prove too strong for the Constitution. Mr. Gladstone and
Mr. Bright would doubtless have gone much further in the path of reform
if unfettered by ducal retainers.

And yet, though England is still very far from the realization of that
political equality which American citizens enjoy among themselves, and
which is perhaps one of the few ascertainable benefits Frenchmen have
derived from the revolution, there can be no doubt as to the direction
in which England is advancing. Democracy is the goal of the future, and
it is even in sight, though a long way off. For instance, considerable
as is the parliamentary influence of certain noblemen in the present
day, it is influence and no more. Before the Reform act of 1832, the
parliamentary "influence" of a peer, as it was euphemistically termed,
meant that he had the absolute disposal of one or more seats in the
House of Commons. The Duke of Norfolk, as before mentioned, returned
eleven members, the Duke of Richmond three, Lord Buckingham six, the
Duke of Newcastle seven. In the year 1820, out of the twenty-six
prelates sitting in the House of Lords, only six were not directly or
indirectly connected with the peerage; while the value of some of the
sees was enormous. Now public opinion is too formidable to allow of
jobbery that is not very discreetly managed, and a great deal no doubt
is thus managed. But appearances must be kept up.

                   E. C. GRENVILLE MURRAY.




MISS MISANTHROPE.

BY JUSTIN MCCARTHY.




CHAPTER IV.

"OH, MUCH DESIRED PRIZE, SWEET LIBERTY!"


The summer had gone and much even of the autumn, and Miss Grey and her
companion were settled in London. Minola had had everything planned out
in her mind before they left Dukes-Keeton, and little Miss Blanchet was
positively awed by her leader's energy, knowledge, and fearlessness. The
first night of their arrival in town they went to a quiet, respectable,
old-fashioned hotel, well known of Keeton folk, where Miss Grey's father
used to stay during his visits to London for many years, and where his
name was still well remembered. Then the two strangers from the country
set out to look for lodgings, and Miss Grey was able to test her
knowledge of London, and satisfy her pride of learning, by conducting
her friend straightway to the region in which she had resolved to make a
home for herself. She had been greatly divided in mind for a while
between Kensington and the West Centre; between the neighborhood of the
South Kensington Museum, the glades of the gardens, and all the charms
of the old court suburb, and the temptations of the National Gallery,
the British Museum, and the old-fashioned squares and houses around the
latter. She decided for the British Museum quarter. Miss Blanchet would
have preferred the brightness and air of fashion which belonged to
Kensington, but Miss Grey ruled that to live somewhere near the British
Museum was more like living in London, and she energetically declared
that she would rather live in Seven Dials than out of London.

To find a pleasant and suitable lodging would ordinarily have been a
difficulty; for the regular London lodging-house keeper detests the
sight of women, and only likes the gentleman who disappears in the
morning and returns late at night. But luckily there are Keeton folk
everywhere. As a rule nobody is born in London, "except children," as a
lady once remarked. Come up to London from whatever little Keeton you
will, you can find your compatriots settled everywhere in the
metropolis. Miss Grey obtained from the kindly landlady of the
hotel--who had herself been born in Keeton, and was married to a Glasgow
man--a choice of Keeton folk willing to receive respectable and
well-recommended lodgers--"real ladies" especially. Miss Grey, being
cordially vouched for by the landlady as a real lady, found out a Keeton
woman in the West Centre who had a drawing-room and two bedrooms to let.

Had Miss Grey invented the place it could not have suited her better. It
was an old-fashioned street, running out of a handsome old-fashioned
square. The street was no thoroughfare. Its other end was closed by a
solemn, sombre structure with a portico, and over the portico a plaster
bust of Pallas. This was an institution or foundation of some kind which
had long outlived the uses whereto it had been devoted by its pious
founder. It now had nothing but a library, a lecture hall, an enclosed
garden (into which, happily for her, the windows of Miss Grey's bedroom
looked), an old fountain in the garden, considerable funds, a board of
trustees, and an annual dinner. This place lent an air of severe dignity
to the street, and furthermore kept the street secluded and quiet by
blocking up one of its ends and inviting no traffic. The house in which
our pair of wanderers was lodging was itself old-fashioned, and in a
manner picturesque. It had broad old staircases of stone, and a large
hall and fine rooms. It had once been a noble mansion, and the legend
was that its owner had entertained Dr. Johnson there and Sir Joshua
Reynolds, and that Mrs. Thrale had often been handed up and down that
staircase. Minola loved association with such good company, and it may
be confessed went up and down the stairs several times for no other
purpose whatever than the pleasure of fancying herself following in the
footsteps of bright Mrs. Thrale, with whose wrongs Miss Grey, as a
misanthrope, was especially bound to sympathize.

The drawing-room happily looked at least aslant over the grass and the
trees of the square. Minola's bedroom, as has been said, looked into the
garden of the institution, with its well-kept walks, its shrubs, and its
old-fashioned fountain, whose quiet plash was always heard in the
seclusion of the back of the house. Had the trunks of the trees been
just a little less blackened by smoke our heroine might well have
fancied, as she looked from her bedroom window of nights, that she was
in some quaint old abode in a quiet country town. But in truth she did
not desire to encourage any such delusion. To feel that she was in the
heart of London was her especial delight. This feeling would have
brightened and glorified a far less attractive place. She used to sit
down alone in her bedroom of nights in order to think quietly to
herself, "Now I am at last really in London; not visiting London, but
living in it." There at least was one dream made real. There was one
ambition crowned. "Come what will," she said to herself, "I am living in
London." In London and freedom she grew more and more healthy and happy.
As a wearied Londoner might have sought out say Keeton, and found new
strength and spirits there, so our Keeton girl, who was somewhat pale
and thin when she sat on the steps of the ducal mausoleum, grew stronger
and brighter every day in the West Centre regions of London.

A happier, quieter, freer life could hardly be imagined, at least for
her. She spent hours in the National Gallery and the Museum; she walked
with Mary Blanchet in Regent's Park, and delighted to find out new
vistas and glimpses of beauty among the trees there, and to insist that
it was ever so much better than any place in the country. As autumn came
on and the trees grew barer and the skies became of a heavier silver
gray, Minola found greater charms in their softened half tones than the
brighter lights of summer could give. Even when it rained--and it did
rain sometimes--who could fail to see the beauty, all its own, of the
green of grass, and the darker stems and branches of trees, showing
faintly through the veil of the mist and the soft descending shower? It
was, indeed, a delightful Arcadian life. Its simplicity can hardly be
better illustrated than by the fact that our adventurous pair of women
always dined at one o'clock--when they dined at all--off a chop, except
on Sundays, when they invariably had a cold fowl.

Much as Miss Grey loved London, however, it was still a place made up of
men whom she considered herself bound to dislike, and of women who
depended far too much on these men. Therefore she made studies of scraps
of London life, and amused herself by satirizing them to her friend.

"I have accomplished a chapter of London, Mary," she said one evening
before their reading had set in. "I have completed my social studies of
our neighbors in Gainsborough Place"--a little street of shops near at
hand. "I am prepared to give you a complete court guide as to the grades
of society there, Mary, so that you may know at once how to demean
yourself to each and all."

"Do tell me all about it; I should very much like to know."

"Shall we begin with the highest or the lowest?"

"I think," Miss Blanchet said with a gentle sigh, expressive of no great
delight in the story of the lower classes, "I would rather you begin low
down, dear, and get done with them first."

"Very well; now listen. The lowest of all is the butcher. He is a
wealthy man, I am sure, and his daughter, who sits in the little office
in the shop, is a good-looking girl, I think. But in private life nobody
in Gainsborough Place mixes with them on really cordial terms. Their
friends come from other places; from butchers' shops in other streets.
They do occasionally interchange a few courtesies with the family of the
baker; but the baker's wife, though not nearly so rich, rather
patronizes and looks down upon Mrs. Butcher."

"Dear me!" said the poetess. "What odd people!"

"Well, the pastry-cook's family will have nothing to do, except in the
way of business, with butcher or baker; but they are very friendly with
the grocer, and they have evenings together. Now the two little old
maids, who keep the stationer's shop where the post-office is, are very
genteel, and have explained to me more than once that they don't feel at
home in this quarter, and that their friends are in the West End. But
they are not well off, poor things, I fear, and they like to spend an
evening now and then with the family of the grocer and the pastry-cook,
who are rather proud to receive them, and can give them the best tea and
Madeira cake; and both the little ladies assure me that nothing can be
more respectable than the families of the pastry-cook and the
grocer--for their station in life, they always add."

"Oh, of course," Miss Blanchet said, who was listening with great
interest as to a story, having that order of mind to which anything is
welcome that offers itself in narrative form, but not having any
perception of a satirical purpose in the whole explanation. Minola
appreciated the "of course," and somehow became discouraged.

"Well," she said, "that's nearly all, except for the family of the
chemist, who live next to the little ladies of the post-office, and who
only know even them by sufferance, and would not for all the world have
any social intercourse with any of the others. It's delightful, I think,
to find that London is not one place at all, but only a cluster of
little Keetons. This one street is Keeton to the life, Mary. I want to
pursue my studies deeper though; I want to find out how the gradations
of society go between the mothers of the boy who drives the butcher's
cart, the baker's boy, and pastry-cook's boy."

"Oh, Minola dear!"

"You think all this very unpoetic, Mary, and you are shocked at my
interest in these prosaic and lowly details. But it is a study of life,
my dear poetess, and it amuses and instructs me. Only for chance, you
know, I might have been like _that_, and it is a grand thing to learn
one's own superiority."

"You never could have been like that, Minola; you belong to a different
class."

"Yes, yes, dear, that is quite true. I belong to the higher classes
entirely; my father was a country architect, my stepfather is a
Nonconformist minister--these are of the aristocracy everywhere."

"You are a lady--a woman of education, Minola," the poetess said almost
severely. She could not understand how even Miss Grey herself could
disparage Miss Grey and her parentage in jest.

"I can assure you, dear, that one of the pastry-cook's daughters, whom I
talked with to-day, is a much better educated girl than I am. You should
hear her talk French, Mary. She has been taught in Paris, dear, and
speaks so well that I found it very hard to understand her. She plays
the harp, and knows all about Wagner. I don't. I like her very much, and
she is coming here to take tea with us."

The poetess was not delighted with this kind of society, but she never
ventured to contradict her leader.

"You can talk to every one I do really believe," she said. "I find it so
hard to get on with people--with some people."

"I feel so happy and so free here. I can say all the cynical things that
please me--_you_ don't mind--and I can like or dislike as I choose."

"I am afraid you dislike more than you like, Minola."

"I think I could like any one who had some strong purpose in life; not
the getting of money, or making a way in society. There are such, I
suppose; I don't know."

"When you meet my brother I am sure you will acknowledge that he has a
purpose in life which is not the getting of money," said Miss Blanchet.
"But you don't like men."

Minola made no reply. Poor little Miss Blanchet felt so kindly to all
the race of men that she did not understand how any woman could really
dislike them.

"I am going to do something that will please you to-morrow," Miss Grey
said, feeling that she owed her companion some atonement for not warming
to the mention of her brother. "I am positively going to hunt out Lucy
Money. They must have returned by this time."

This was really very pleasant news for Miss Blanchet. She had been
longing for her friend to renew her acquaintance with Miss Lucy Money,
about whom she had many dreams. It did not occur to Mary Blanchet to
question directly even in her own mind the decrees of Miss Grey, or to
say to herself that the course of life which they were leading was not
the most delightful that could be devised. But, if the little poetess
could have ventured to translate vague yearnings into definite thoughts,
she would, perhaps, have acknowledged to herself a faint desire that the
brilliant passages of the London career she had marked out for herself
in anticipation should come rather more quickly than they just now
seemed likely to do. At present there was not much difference
perceptible to her between London and Duke's-Keeton. Nobody came to see
them. Even her brother had not yet presented himself. Her poem did not
make much progress; there was no great incentive to poetic work. Minola
and she did not know any poets, or artists, or publishers. Mary
Blanchet's poetic tastes were of a somewhat old-fashioned school, and
did not include any particular care for looking at trees, and fields,
and water, and skies, although these objects of natural beauty were made
to figure in the poems a good deal in connection with, and illustrative
of, the emotions of the poetess. Therefore the rambles in the park were
not so delightful to her as to her leader; and when the evening set in,
and Minola and she read to each other, Mary Blanchet was always rather
pleased if an opportunity occurred for interrupting the reading by a
talk. She was particularly anxious that Minola should renew her
acquaintance with her old schoolfellow, Miss Lucy Money, whose father
she understood to be somehow a great sort of person, and through whom
she saw dimly opening up a vista, perhaps the only one for her, into
society and literature. But the Money family were out of town when our
friends came to London, and Miss Blanchet had to wait; and, even when it
was probable that they had returned, Miss Grey did not seem very eager
to renew the acquaintance. Indeed, her resolve to visit Miss Money now
was entirely a good-natured concession to the evident desire of Mary
Blanchet. Minola saw her friend's little ways and weaknesses clearly,
and smiled now and then as she thought of them, and liked her none the
less for them--rather, indeed, felt her breast swell with kindliness and
pity. It pleased her generous heart to gratify her companion in every
way, to find out things that she liked and bring them to her, to study
her little innocent vanities, that she might gratify them. What little
dainties Mary Blanchet liked to have with her tea, what pretty ribbons
she thought it became her to wear--these Miss Grey was always perplexing
herself about. When she found that she liked to be alone sometimes, that
she must have a long walk unaccompanied, that she must have thoughts
which Mary would not care to hear, then she felt a pang of remorse, as
if she were guilty of a breach of true _camaraderie_, and she could not
rest until she had relieved her soul by some special mark of attention
to her friend. On the other hand, Mary Blanchet, for all her dreams and
aspirations, was a sensible and managing little person, who got for Miss
Grey about twice the value that she herself could have obtained out of
her money. This was a fact which Minola always took care to impress upon
her companion, for she dreaded lest Miss Blanchet should feel herself a
dependent. Miss Blanchet, however, in a modest way, knew her value, and
had besides one of the temperaments to which dependence on some really
loved being comes natural, and is inevitable.

So Minola set out next day, about three o'clock, to look up her
schoolfellow, Miss Lucy Money. She went forth on her mission with some
unwillingness, and with a feeling as if she were abandoning some purpose
or giving up a little of a principle in doing so. "I came to London to
live alone and independent," she said to herself sometimes, "and already
I am going out to seek for acquaintances. Why do I do that? I want
strength of purpose. I am just like everybody else"; and she began, as
was her wont, to scrutinize her own weaknesses, and bear heavily on
them. For, absurd as it may seem, this odd young woman really did
propose to live alone--herself and Mary Blanchet--in London until they
died--alone, that is, so far as social life and acquaintanceships in
society were concerned. Vast and vague schemes for doing good to her
neighbors, and for striving in especial to give a helping hand to
troubled women, were in Miss Grey's plans of life; but society, so
called, was to have no part in them. It did not occur to her that she
was far too handsome a girl to be allowed to put herself thus under an
extinguisher or behind a screen. When people looked after her as she
passed through the streets, she assumed that they noticed some rustic
peculiarity in her dress or her hat, and she felt a contempt for them.
Her love of London did not imply a love of Londoners, whom in general
she thought rude and given to staring. But even if she had thought
people were looking at her because of her figure, her face, her eyes,
her superb hair, she would have felt a contempt for them all the same.
She had a proud indifference to personal beauty, and looked down upon
men whose judgment could be affected by the fact that a woman had finer
eyes, or brighter hair, or a more shapely mould than other women.

Once Minola was positively on the point of turning back, and renouncing
all claim on the acquaintanceship of her former school companion. She
suddenly remembered, however, that in condemning her own fancied
weakness she had forgotten that her visit was undertaken to oblige Mary
Blanchet. "Poor Mary! I have only one little acquaintanceship that has
anything to do with society, and am I to deny her that chance if she
likes it?" She went on rapidly and resolutely. Sometimes she felt
inclined to blame herself for bringing Mary Blanchet away from Keeton,
although Mary had for years been complaining of her life and her work
there, and beseeching Miss Grey not to leave her behind when she went to
live in London.

It was a beautiful autumn day. London looks to great advantage on one of
these rare days, and Miss Grey felt her heart swell with mere delight as
she looked from the streets to the sky and from the sky to the streets.
She passed through one or two squares, and stopped to see the sun,
already going down, send its light through the bare branches of the
trees. The western sky was covered with gray, silver-edged clouds, which
brightened into blots of golden fire as they came closer in the track of
the sun. The air was mild, soft, and almost warm. All poets and painters
are full of the autumnal charms of the country; but to certain oddly
constituted minds some street views in London on a fine autumn day have
an unspeakable witchery. Miss Grey walked round and round one of the
squares, and had to remind herself of her purpose on Mary Blanchet's
behalf in order to impel herself on.

The best of the day had gone, and the early evening was looking somewhat
chill and gloomy between the huge ramparts of the Victoria street houses
by the time that Miss Grey stood in that solemn thoroughfare, and her
heart sank a little as she reached the house where her old school friend
lived.

"Perhaps Lucy Money is altogether changed," Miss Grey said to herself as
she came up to the door. "Perhaps she won't care about me; perhaps I
shan't like her any more; and perhaps her mamma will think me a dreadful
person for not honoring my stepfather and stepmother. Perhaps there are
brothers--odious, slangy young men, who think girls fall in love with
them. Oh, yes, here is one of them."

For just as she had rung the bell a hansom cab drove up to the door, and
a tall, dark-complexioned young man leaped out. He raised his hat with
what seemed to Miss Grey something the manner of a foreigner when he saw
her standing at the door, and she felt a momentary thrill of relief,
because, if he was a foreigner, he could not be Lucy Money's brother.
Besides, she knew very well that the great houses in Victoria street
were occupied by several tenants, and there was good hope that the young
man might have business with the upper story, and she with the ground
floor.

The young man was about to ring the bell, when he stopped and said:

"Perhaps you have rung already?"

"Yes, I have rung," Miss Grey coldly replied.

"This is Mr. Money's, I suppose?"

"Mr. Money lives here," she answered, with the manner of one resolute to
close the conversation. The young man did not seem in the least
impressed by her tone.

"Perhaps I have the honor of speaking to Miss Money?" he began, with
delighted eagerness.

"No. I am not Miss Money," she answered, still in her clear monotone.

No words could say more distinctly than the young man's expression did,
"I am sorry to hear it." Indeed, no young man in the world going to
visit Mr. Money could have avoided wishing that the young lady then
standing at the door might prove to be Miss Money.

The door opened, and the young man drew politely back to give Miss Grey
the first chance. She asked for Miss Lucy Money, and the porter rang a
bell for one of Mr. Money's servants. Miss Grey had brought a card with
her, on which she had written over her engraved name, "For Lucy Money,"
and beneath it, "Nola," the short rendering of "Minola," which they used
to adopt at school.

Then the porter looked inquiringly at the other visitor.

"If Mr. Money is at home," said the latter, "I should be glad to see
him. I find I have forgotten my card case, but my name is Heron--Mr.
Victor Heron; and do, please, try to remember it, and to say it
rightly."




CHAPTER V.

MISS GREY'S FIRST CALL.


Mr. Money's home, like Mr. Money himself, conveyed to the intelligent
observer an idea of quiet, self-satisfied strength. Mr. Money had one of
the finest and most expensive suites of rooms to be had in the great
Victoria street buildings, and his rooms were furnished handsomely and
richly. He had servants in sober livery, and a carriage for his wife and
daughters, and a little brougham for himself. He made no pretence at
being fashionable; rather indeed seemed to say deliberately, "I am a
plain man and don't care twopence about fashion, and I despise making a
show of being rich; but I am rich enough for all I want, and whatever
money can buy for me I can buy." He would not allow his wife and
daughters to aim at being persons of fashion had they been so inclined,
but they might spend as much money as ever they pleased. He never made a
boast of his original poverty, or the humbleness of his bringing up, nor
put on any vulgar show of rugged independence. The impression he made
upon everybody was that of a completely self-sufficing--we do not say
self-sufficient--man. It was not very clear how he had made his money.
He had been at the head of one of the working departments under the
Government, had somehow fancied himself ill treated, resigned his place,
and, it was understood, had entered into various contracts to do work
for the governments of foreign States. It was certain that Mr. Money was
not a speculator. His name never appeared in the directors' list of any
new company. He could not be called a city man. But it was certain that
he was rich.

Mr. Money was in Parliament. He was a strong radical in theory, and was
believed to have much stronger opinions than he troubled himself to
express. There was a rough, scornful way about him, as of one who dearly
considered all our existing arrangements merely provisional, and who in
the mean time did not care to occupy himself overmuch with the small
differences between this legislative proposition and that. It was not on
political subjects that he usually spoke. He was a very good speaker,
clear, direct, and expressive in his language, always using plain,
effective words, and always showing a perfect ease in the finishing of
his sentences. There was a savor of literature about him, and it was
evident in many indirect ways that he knew Greek and Latin much better
than most of the university men. The impression he produced was that of
a man who on most subjects knew more than he troubled himself to
display. It seemed as if it would take a very ready speaker indeed to
enter into personal contest with Mr. Money and not get the worst of it.

He was believed to be very shrewd and clever, and was known to be
liberal of his money. People consulted him about many things, and to
some extent admired him; some were a little afraid of him, and, in
homely phrase, fought shy of him. Perhaps he was thought to be
unscrupulous; perhaps his blunt way of going at the very heart of a
scruple in others made them fancy that he rather despised all moral
conventionalities. Whatever the reason was, a certain class of persons
always rather distrusted Mr. Money, and held aloof even while asking his
advice. No one who had come in his way even for a moment forgot him, or
was confused as to his identity, or failed to form some opinion about or
could have put clearly into words an exact statement of the opinion he
had formed.

On this particular day of autumn Mr. Money was in his study reading
letters. He was talking to himself in short, blunt sentences over each
letter as he read it, and put it into a pigeonhole, or tore it and threw
it into the waste-paper basket. His sentences were generally concise
judgments pronounced on each correspondent. "Fool." "Blockhead." "Just
so; I expected that of you!" "Yes, yes, he's all right." "That will do."
Sometimes a comment, begun rather gruffly, ended in a good-natured
smile, and sometimes Mr. Money, having read a letter to the close with a
pleased and satisfied expression, suddenly became thoughtful, and leaned
upon his desk, drumming with the finger tips of one hand upon his teeth.

A servant interrupted his work by bringing him a message and a name. Mr.
Money looked up, said quickly, "Yes, yes; show him in!" and Mr. Victor
Heron was introduced.

Mr. Money advanced to meet his visitor with an air of cordial welcome.
One peculiarity of Mr. Money's strong, homely face was the singular
sweetness of the smile which it sometimes wore. The full lips parted so
pleasantly, the white teeth shone, and the eyes, that usually seemed
heavy, beamed with so kindly an air, that to youth at least the
influence was for the moment irresistible. Victor Heron's emotional face
sparkled with responsive expression.

"Well, well; glad to see you, glad to see you. Knew you would come.
Shove away those blue books and sit down. We haven't long got back; but
I tried to find you, and couldn't get at your address. They didn't know
at the Colonial Institute even. And how are you, and what have you been
doing with yourself?"

"Not much good," Heron replied, thinking as usual of his grievance. "I
couldn't succeed in seeing anybody."

"Of course not, of course not. I could have told you so. People are not
yet coming back to town, except hard working fellows like me. Have you
been cooling your heels in the antechambers of the Colonial office?"

"Yes, I have been there a little; not much. I saw it was no use just
yet, and that isn't a kind of occupation I delight in." The young man's
face reddened with the bare memory of his vexation. "I hate that sort of
thing."

"To go where you know people don't want to see you? Yes, it tries young
and sensitive people a good deal. They've put you off?"

"As I told you, I have seen nobody yet. But I mean to persevere. They
shall find I am not a man to be got rid of in that way."

Mr. Money made no observation on this, but went to a drawer in his desk
and took out a little book with pages alphabetically arranged.

"I have been making inquiries about you," he said, "of various people
who know all about the colonies. Would you like to hear a summary
description of your personal character? Don't be offended--this is a way
I have; the moment a person interests me and seems worth thinking about,
I enter him in my little book here, and sum up his character from my own
observation and from what people tell me. Shall I read it for you? I
wouldn't, you may be sure, if I thought you were anything of a fool."

This compliment, of course, conquered Heron, who was otherwise a good
deal puzzled. But there was something in Mr. Money's manner with those
in whom he took any interest, that prevented their feeling hurt by his
occasional bluntness.

"I don't know myself," Heron said.

"Of course you don't. What busy man, who has to know other people, could
have time to study himself? That work might do for philosophers. I may
teach you something now, and save you the trouble."

"I suppose I ought to make my own acquaintance," said Heron resignedly,
while much preferring to talk of his grievance.

"Very good. Now listen.

"Heron, Victor.--Formerly in administration of St. Xavier's settlements.
Got into difficulty; dropped down. Education good, but literary rather
than businesslike. Plenty of pluck, but wants coolness. Egotistic, but
unselfish. Good deal of talent and go. Very honest, but impracticable. A
good weapon in good hands, but must take care not to be made a
plaything."

Heron laughed. "It's a little like the sort of thing phrenologists give
people," he said, "but I think it's very flattering. I can assure you,
however, no one shall make a plaything of _me_," he added with emphasis.

"So we all think, so we all think," Mr. Money said, putting away his
book. "Well, you are going on with this then?"

"I am going to vindicate my conduct, and compel them to grant me an
inquiry, if you mean that. Nothing on earth shall keep me from that."

"So, so. Very well. We'll talk about that another time--many other
times; and I may give you some advice, which you needn't take if you
don't like, and I shan't be offended. Now, I want to introduce you to my
wife and my girls, and you must have a cup of tea. Odd, isn't it, to
find men drinking tea at five o'clock in the afternoon? Up at the club,
any day about that hour, you might think we were a drawing-room full of
old spinsters, to hear the rattling of teacups that goes on all around."

He took Heron's arm in a friendly, dictatorial way, and conducted him to
the drawing-room on the same floor.

The drawing-room was entered, not by opening a door, but by withdrawing
some folds of a great, heavy, dark-green curtain. Mr. Money drew aside
part of the curtain to make way for his friend; and they both stopped a
moment on the threshold. A peculiar, sweet, half melancholy smile gave a
strange dignity for the moment to Mr. Money's somewhat rough face, and
he gently let the curtain fall.

"Wasn't there some great person, Mr. Heron--Burke, was it?--who used to
say that whatever troubles he had outside all ceased as he stood at his
own door? Well, I always feel like that when I lift this curtain."

It was a pretty sight, as he again raised the curtain and led Heron in.
The drawing-room was very large, and was richly, and, as it seemed to
Heron, somewhat oddly furnished. The light in the lower part was faint
and dim, a sort of yellowish twilight, procured by softened lamps. The
upper extremity was steeped in a far brighter light, and displayed to
Heron, almost as on a stage, a little group of women, among whom his
quick eye at once saw the girl who had come up to the door at the same
time with him. She was, indeed, a very conspicuous figure, for she was
seated on a sofa, and one girl sat at her feet, while another stood at
the arm of the sofa and bent over her. An elderly lady, with voluminous
draperies that floated over the floor, was reclining on a low arm-chair,
with her profile turned to Heron. On a fancy table near, a silver
tea-tray glittered. A daintily dressed waiting-maid was serving tea.

"Take care of the floors as you come along," said Money. "We like to put
rugs, and rolls of carpet, and stools now in all sorts of wrong places,
to trip people up. That shows how artistic we are! Theresa, dear, this
is my friend, Mr. Heron."

"I am glad to see you, Mr. Heron," said a full, deep, melancholy voice,
and a tall, slender lady partly rose from her chair, then sank again
amid her draperies, bowed a head topped by a tiny lace cap, and held out
to Heron a thin hand covered with rings, and having such bracelets and
dependent chainlets that when Heron gave it even the gentlest pressure,
they rattled like the manacles of a captive.

"We saw you in Paris, Mr. Heron," the lady graciously said, "but I think
you hardly saw us."

"These are my daughters, Mr. Heron, Theresa and Lucy. I think them good
girls, though full of nonsense," said Mr. Money.

Lucy, who had been on a footstool at Miss Grey's feet, gathered herself
up, blushing. She was a pretty girl, with brown, frizzy hair, and wore a
dress which fitted her so closely from neck to hip that she might really
have been, to all seeming, melted or moulded into it. The other young
lady, Theresa, slightly and gravely inclined her head to Mr. Heron, who
at once thought the whole group most delightful and beautiful, and found
his breast filled with a new pride in the loved old England that
produced such homes and furnished them with such women.

"Dear, darling papa," exclaimed the enthusiastic little Lucy, swooping
at her father, and throwing both arms round his neck, "we have had such
a joy to-day, such a surprise! Don't you see anybody here? Oh, come now,
do use your eyes."

"I see a young lady whom I have not yet the pleasure of knowing, but
whom I hope you will help me to know, Lucelet."

Mr. Money turned to Miss Grey with his genial smile. She rose from the
sofa and bowed and waited. She did not as yet quite understand the Money
family, and was not sure whether she ought to like them or not. They
impressed her at first as being far too rich for her taste, and odd and
affected, and she hated affectation.

"But this is Nola Grey, papa--my dearest old schoolfellow when I was at
Keeton; you must have heard me talk of Nola Grey a thousand times."

So she dragged her papa up to Nola Grey, whose color grew a little at
this tempestuous kind of welcome.

"Dare say I did, Lucelet, but Miss Grey, I am sure will excuse me if I
have forgotten; I am very glad to see you, Miss Grey--glad to see any
friend of Lucelet's. So you come from Keeton? That's another reason why
I should be glad to see you, for I just now want to ask a question or
two about Keeton. Sit down."

Miss Grey allowed herself to be led to a sofa a little distance from
where she had been sitting. Mr. Money sat beside her.

"Now, Lucelet, I want to ask Miss Grey a sensible question or two, which
I don't think you would care twopence about. Just you go and help our
two Theresas to talk to Mr. Heron."

"But, papa darling, Miss Grey won't care about what you call sensible
subjects any more than I. She won't know anything about them."

"Yes, dear, she will; look at her forehead."

"Oh, I have looked at it! Isn't it beautiful?"

"I didn't mean that," Mr. Money said with a smile; "I meant that it
looked sensible and thoughtful. Now, go away, Lucelet, like a dear
little girl."

Miss Grey sat quietly through all this. She was not in the least
offended. Mr. Money seemed to her to be just what a man ought to
be--uncouth, rough, and domineering. She was amused meanwhile to observe
the kind of devotion and enthusiasm with which Mr. Heron was entering
into conversation with Mrs. Money and her elder daughter. That, too, was
just what a man ought to be--a young man--silly in his devotion to
women, unless, perhaps, where the devotion was to be accounted for
otherwise than by silliness, as in a case like the present, where the
unmarried women might be presumed to have large fortunes. So Miss Grey
liked the whole scene. It was as good as a play to her, especially as
good as a play which confirms all one's own theories of life.

"England, Mr. Heron," said Mrs. Money in her melancholy voice, "is near
her fall."

"Oh, Mrs. Money, pray pardon me--England! you amaze me--I _am_
surprised--do forgive me--to hear an Englishwoman say so; our England
with her glorious destiny!" The young man blushed and grew confused. One
might have thought his mother had been called in question or his
sweetheart.

Mrs. Money shook her head and twirled one of her bracelets.

"She is near her fall, Mr. Heron! You cannot know. You have lived far
away, and do not see what _we_ see. She has proved faithless to her
mission."

"Something--yes--there I agree," Mr. Heron eagerly interposed, thinking
of the St. Xavier's settlements.

"She was the cradle of freedom," Mrs. Money went on. "She ought to have
been always its nursery and home. What have we now, Mr. Heron? A people
absolutely in servitude, the principle of caste everywhere
triumphant--corruption in the aristocracy--corruption in the city. No
man now dares to serve his country except at the penalty of suffering
the blackest ingratitude!"

Mr. Heron was startled. He did not know that Mrs. Money was arguing only
from the assumption that her husband was a very great man, who would
have done wonderful things for England if a perverse and base ruling
class had not thwarted him, and treated him badly.

"England," Theresa Money said, smiling sweetly, but with a suffusion of
melancholy, "can hardly be regenerated until she is once more dipped in
the holy well."

"You see we all think differently, Mr. Heron," said the eager Lucy.
"Mamma thinks we want a republic. Tessy is a saint, and would like to
see roadside shrines."

"And you?" Heron asked, pleased with the girl's bright eyes and winning
ways.

"Oh--I only believe in the regeneration of England through the
renaissance of art. So we all have our different theories, you see, but
we all agree to differ, and we don't quarrel much. Papa laughs at us all
when he has time. But just now I am taken up with Nola Grey. If I were a
man, I should make an idol of her. That lovely, statuesque face, that
figure--like the Diana of the Louvre!"

Mr. Heron looked and admired, but one person's raptures about man or
woman seldom awaken corresponding raptures in impartial breasts. He saw,
however, a handsome, ladylike girl, who conveyed to him a sort of
chilling impression.

"She was my schoolfellow at Keeton," Lucy went on, "and she was so good
and clever that I adored her then, and I do now again. She has come to
London to live alone, and I am sure she must have some strange and
romantic story."

Meanwhile Mr. Money, who prefaced his inquiries by telling Miss Grey
that he was always asking information about something, began to put
several questions to her concerning the local magnates, politics, and
parties of Keeton. Minola was rather pleased to be talked to by a man as
if she were a rational creature. Like most girls brought up in a
Nonconformist household in a country town, she had been surrounded by
political talk from her infancy, but unlike most girls, she had
sometimes listened to it and learned to know what it was all about. So
she gave Mr. Money a good deal of information, which he received with an
approbatory "Yes, yes" or an inquiring "So, so" every now and then.

"You know that there's likely to be a vacancy soon in the
representation-member of Parliament," he added by way of explanation.

"I know what a vacancy in the representation means," Miss Grey answered
demurely, "but I didn't know there was likely to be one just now. I
don't keep up much correspondence with Keeton. I don't love it."

"Why not?"

"Oh, I don't know."

He smiled.

"You are smiling because you think that a woman's answer? So it is, Mr.
Money, and I am afraid it isn't true; but I really didn't think of what
I was saying. I _do_ know why I don't care much about Keeton."

"Yes, yes; well, I dare say you do. But to return, as the books say--do
you know a Mr. Augustus Sheppard?"

She could not help coloring slightly. "Yes, I know him," and a faint
smile broke over her face in spite of herself.

"Is he strong in Keeton?"

"Strong?"

"Well liked, respectable, a likely kind of man to get good Conservative
support if he stood for Keeton? You don't know, perhaps?"

"Yes, I think I do know. I believe he wishes to get into Parliament, and
I am sure he is thought highly of. He is a very good man--a man of very
high character," she added emphatically, anxious to repair the mental
wrong doing of thinking him ridiculous and tiresome.

Just at this moment Mr. Heron rose to take his leave, and Mr. Money left
the room with him, so that the conversation with Miss Grey was broken
off. Then Lucy came to Nola again, and Nola was surrounded by the three
women, who began to lay out various schemes for seeing her often and
making London pleasant to her. Much as our lonely heroine loved her
loneliness, she was greatly touched by their spontaneous kindness, but
she was alarmed by it too.

A card was brought to Mrs. Money, who passed it on to Lucy.

"Oh, how delightful!" Lucy exclaimed. "So glad he has come, mamma. Nola,
dear, a poet--a real poet!"

But Nola would not prolong her visit that day even for a poet. A very
handsome, tall, dark-haired man, who at a distance seemed boyishly
young, and when near looked worn and not very young, was shown in. For
the moment or two that she could see him, Minola thought she had never
seen so self-conceited and affected a creature. She did not hear his
name nor a word he said, but his splendid, dark eyes, deeply set in
hollows, took in every outline of her face and form. She thought him the
poet of a schoolgirl's romance made to order.

Minola tore herself from the clinging embraces of Lucy, with less
difficulty, perhaps, because of the poet's arrival, to whose society
Lucy was clearly anxious to hasten back. It so happened that Mr. Money
had kept Mr. Heron for a few minutes in talk, and the result was that
exactly as Miss Grey reached the door Mr. Heron arrived there too. They
both came out together, and in a moment they were in the gray
atmosphere, dun lines of houses, and twinkling gaslights of Victoria
street. Minola would much rather have been there alone.

Victor Heron, however, was full of the antique ideas of man's chivalrous
duty and woman's sweet dependence, which still lingered in the
out-of-the-way colony where he had spent so much of his time. Also, it
must be owned that he had not yet quite got rid of the sense of
responsibility and universal dictatorship belonging to the chief man in
a petty commonwealth. For some time after his return to London he could
hardly see an omnibus horse fall in the street without thinking it was
an occasion which called for some intervention on his part. Therefore,
when Miss Grey and he stood in the street together Mr. Heron at once
assumed that the young woman must, as a matter of course, require his
escort and protection.

He calmly took his place at her side. Miss Grey was a little surprised,
but said nothing, and they went on.

"Do you live far from this, Miss Money?" he began.

"I am not Miss Money. My name is Grey."

"Of course, yes--I beg your pardon for the mistake. It was only a
mistake of the tongue, for I knew very well that you were not Miss
Money."

"Thank you."

"And your first name is so very pretty and peculiar that I could not
have easily forgotten it."

"I am greatly obliged to my godfathers and godmothers."

"Did you say that you lived in this quarter, Miss Grey?"

"No--I did not make any answer; I had not time."

"I hope you do not live very near," the gallant Heron observed.

"Why do you hope that?" Miss Grey said, turning her eyes upon him with
an air of cold resolution, which would probably have proved very trying
to a less sincere maker of compliments, even though a far more dexterous
person than Mr. Heron.

"Of course, because I should have the less of your company."

"But there is no need of your coming out of your way for me. I don't
require any escort, Mr. Heron."

"I couldn't think of letting a lady walk home by herself. That would
seem very strange to me. Perhaps you think me old-fashioned or
colonial?"

"I have heard that you are from the colonies. In London people have not
time to keep up all these pretty forms and ceremonies. We don't any
longer pretend to think that a girl needs to be defended against giants,
or robbers, or mad bulls, when crossing two or three streets in open
day."

"Well, it is hardly open day now; it is almost quite dark."

"The lamps are lighted," Miss Gray observed.

"Yes, if you call that being lighted! You have such bad gas in London.
Why does not somebody stir up people here, and put things to rights? You
seem to me the most patient people in all the world. I wish they would
give me the ruling of this place for about a twelvemonth."

"I wish they would."

"Do you?" and he looked at her with a glance of genuine gratitude in his
dark eyes, for he thought she meant to express her entire confidence in
his governing power, and her wish to see him at the head of affairs.
Miss Grey, however, only meant that if he were engaged in directing the
municipal government of London he probably would be rather too busy to
walk with her.

"Yes," he went on, "you should soon see a change. For instance"--they
were now at the end of Victoria street, near the Abbey--"I would begin
by having a great broad street, like this, running right up from here to
the British Museum. You know where the British Museum is, of course?"

"Yes; I live near it."

"Do you really? I am so glad to hear that. I have been there lately very
often. How happy you Londoners are to have such glorious places. In that
reading-room I felt inclined to bless England."

Miss Grey was now particularly sorry that she had said anything about
her place of residence. Still it did not seem as if much would have been
gained by any reticence unless she could actually dismiss her companion
peremptorily. Mr. Heron was evidently quite resolved to be her escort
all the way along. He was clearly under the impression that he was
making himself very agreeable. The good-natured youth believed he was
doing quite the right thing, and meant it all for the very best, and
therefore could not suppose that any nice girl could fail to accept his
attendance in a kindly spirit. That Miss Grey must be a nice girl he was
perfectly certain, for he had met her at Mr. Money's, and Money was
evidently a fine fellow--a very fine fellow. Miss Grey was very handsome
too, but that did not count for very much with Heron. At least he would
have made himself just as readily, under the circumstances, the escort
of little Miss Blanchet.

So he talked on about various things--the Moneys, and what charming
people they were! the British Museum, what a noble institution! the
National Gallery, how hideous the building!--why on earth didn't anybody
do something?--the glorious destiny of England--the utter imbecility of
the English Government.

It was not always quite easy to keep up with his talk, for the streets
were crowded and noisy, and Mr. Heron talked right on through every
interruption. When they came to crossings where the perplexed currents
and counter-currents of traffic on wheels would have made a nervous
person shudder, Mr. Heron coolly took Miss Grey's hand and conducted her
in and out, talking all the while as if they were crossing a ball-room
floor. Minola made it a point of honor not to hesitate, or start, or
show that she had nerves. But when he began to run into politics he
always pulled himself up, for he politely remembered that young ladies
did not care about politics, and so he tried to find some prettier
subject to talk about. Miss Grey understood this perfectly well, and was
amused and contemptuous.

"I suppose this man must be a person of some brains and sense," she
thought. "He was in command of something somewhere, and I suppose even
the Government he calls so imbecile would not have put him there if he
were a downright fool. But because he talks to a woman, he feels bound
only to talk of trivial things."

At last the walk came to an end. "Ah, I beg pardon. You live here," Mr.
Heron said. "May I have the honor of calling on your family? I sometimes
come to the Museum, and if I might call, I should be delighted to make
their acquaintance."

"Thank you," Miss Grey said coldly. "I have no family. My father and
mother are dead."

"Oh, I am so sorry! I wish I had not asked such a question." He looked
really distressed, and the expression of his eyes had for the first time
a pleasing, softening effect upon Miss Grey.

"We lodge here all alone--a lady--an old friend of mine--and I. We have
no acquaintances, unless Lucy Money's family may be called so. We read
and study a great deal, and don't go out, and don't see any one."

"I can quite understand," Mr. Heron answered with grave sympathy. "Of
course you don't care to be intruded on by visitors. I thank you for
having allowed me the pleasure of accompanying you so far."

He spoke in tones much more deferential than before, for he assumed that
the young lady was lonely and poor. There was something in his manner,
in his eyes, in his grave, respectful voice, which conveyed to Minola
the idea of genuine sympathy, and brought to her, the object of it, a
new conviction that she really was isolated and friendless, and the
springs of her emotions were touched in a moment, and tears flashed in
her eyes. Perhaps Mr. Heron saw them, and felt that he ought not to see
them, for he raised his hat and instantly left her.

Minola lingered for a moment on the doorstep, in order that she might
recover her expression of cheerfulness before meeting the eyes of Miss
Blanchet. But that little lady had seen her coming to the door, and seen
and marvelled at her escort, and now ran herself and opened the door to
receive her.

"My dear Minola, do tell me who that handsome young man was! What lovely
dark eyes he had! Where did you meet him? Is he young Mr. Money?"

The poetess's susceptible bosom still thrilled and throbbed at the
sight, or even the thought, of a handsome young man. She could not
understand how anybody on earth could avoid liking handsome young men.
But in this case a certain doubt and dissatisfaction suddenly dissolved
away into her instinctive gratification at the sight of Minola's escort.
A handsome and young Mr. Money might prove an inconvenient visitor just
at present.

Minola briefly told her when they were safe in their room. Miss Blanchet
was relieved to find that he was not a young Mr. Money, for a young Mr.
Money, if there were one, would doubtless be rich.

"Isn't he wonderfully handsome! Such a smile!"

"I hardly know," Minola said distressedly; "perhaps he is. I really
didn't notice. He goes to the Museum, and I must exile myself from the
place for evermore, or I shall be always meeting him, and be forced to
listen politely to talk about nothing. Mary Blanchet, our days of
freedom are gone! We are getting to know people. I foresaw it. What
shall we do? We must find some other lodgings ever so far away."

"Do you like Miss Money, dear?" Mary Blanchet asked timidly.

"Lucy? Oh, yes, very much. But there is Mr. Money; and they are going to
be terribly kind to us; and they have all manner of friends; and what is
to become of my independence? Mary Blanchet, I will _not_ bear it! I
_will_ be independent!"

"I have news for you, dear," Miss Blanchet said.

"If it please the destinies, not news of any more friends! Why, we shall
be like the hare in Gay's fable if we go on in this way."

"Not of any more friends, darling, but of one friend. My brother has
been here."

"Oh!"

"Yes; and he is longing to see you."

Minola sincerely wished she could say that she was longing to see him.
But she could not say it, even to please her friend and comrade.

"You don't want to see him," said Mary Blanchet in piteous reproach.

"But you do, dear," Miss Grey said; "and I shall like to see any one, be
sure, who brightens your life."

This was said with full sincerity, although at the very moment the
whimsical thought passed through her, "We only want Mr. Augustus
Sheppard now to complete our social happiness."




CHAPTER VI.

IS THIS ALCESTE?


Minola's mind was a good deal disturbed by the various little events of
the day, the incidents and consequences of her first visit in London.
She began to see with much perplexity and disappointment that her life
of lonely independence was likely to be compromised. She was not sure
that she could much like the Moneys, and yet she felt that they were
disposed and determined to be very kind to her. There was something
ridiculous and painful in the fact that Mr. Augustus Sheppard's name was
thrust upon her almost at the first moment of her crossing for the first
time a strange threshold in London; then there was Mary Blanchet's
brother turning up; and Mary Blanchet herself was evidently falling off
from the high design of lonely independence. Again, there was Mr. Heron,
who now knew where she lived, and who often went to the British Museum,
and who might cross her path at any hour. Sweet, lonely freedom, happy
carelessness of action, farewell!

Mr. Heron was especially a trouble to Minola. The kindly, grave
expression on his face when he heard of her living alone declared, as
nearly as any words could do, that he considered her an object of pity.
Was she an object of pity? Was that the light in which any one could
look at her superb project of playing at a lifelong holiday? And if
people chose to look at it so, what did that matter to her? Are women,
then, the slaves of the opinion of people all around them? "They are,"
Minola said to herself in scorn and melancholy--"they are; we are. I am
shaken to the very soul, because a young man, for whose opinion on any
other subject I should not care anything, chooses to look at me with
pity!"

The night was melancholy. When the outer world was shut out, and the gas
was lighted, and the two women sat down to work and talk, nothing seemed
to Minola quite as it had been. The evident happiness and passing high
spirits of the little poetess oppressed her. Mary Blanchet was so glad
to be making acquaintances, and to have some prospect of seeing the
inside of a London home. Then Minola's kindlier nature returned to her,
and she thought of Mary's delight at seeing her brother, and how unkind
it would be if she, Minola, did not try to enter into her feelings. Her
mind went back to her own brother, to their dear early companionship,
when nothing seemed more natural and more certain than that they two
should walk the world arm-in-arm. Now all that had come to an end--faded
away somehow; and he had gone into the world on his own account, and
made other ties, and forgotten her. But if he were even now to come
back, if she were to hear in the street the sound of the peculiar
whistle with which he always announced his coming to her--oh, how, in
spite of all his forgetfulness and her anger, she would run to him and
throw her arms around his neck! Why should not Mary Blanchet love her
brother, and gladden when he came?

"What is your brother like, Mary, dear?" she said gently, anxious to
propitiate by voluntarily entering on the topic dearest to her friend.

"Oh, very handsome--very, very handsome!"

Miss Grey smiled in spite of herself.

"Now, Minola, I know what you are smiling at; you think it is my
sisterly nonsense, and all that; but wait until you see."

"I'll wait," Minola said.

Miss Grey did not go out the next day as usual, although it was one of
the soft, amber-gray, autumnal days that she loved, and the Regent's
Park would have looked beautiful. She remained nearly all the morning in
her own room, and avoided even Mary Blanchet. Some singular change had
taken place within her, for which she could not account, otherwise than
by assuming that it was begotten of the fear that she would be drawn,
willingly or unwillingly, into uncongenial companionship, and must
renounce her liberty. She was forced into a strange, painful,
self-questioning mood. Was the whole fabric of her self-appointed
happiness and independence only a dream, or, worse than a dream, an
error? So soon to doubt the value and the virtue of the emancipation she
had prayed for and planned for during years? Not often, perhaps, has a
warm-hearted, fanciful, and spirited girl been pressed down by such
peculiar relationship as hers at Keeton lately; a twice removed
stepfather and stepmother, absolutely uncongenial with her, causing her
soul and her youth to congeal amid dull repression. What wonder that to
her all happiness seemed to consist in mere freedom and unrestricted
self-development? And now--so soon--why does she begin to doubt the
reality, the fulfilment of her happiness? Only because an impulsive and
kindly young man, whom she saw for the first time, looked pityingly at
her. This, she said to herself, is what our self-reliance and our
emancipation come to after all.

It was a positive relief to her, after a futile hour or so of such
questioning, when Mary Blanchet ran up stairs, and with beaming eyes
begged that Minola would come and see her brother. "He is longing to see
you--and you will like him--oh, you will like him, Minola dearest?" she
said beseechingly.

Miss Gray went down stairs straightway, without stopping to give one
touch to her hair, or one glance at the glass. The little poetess was
waiting a moment, with an involuntary look toward the dressing table, as
if Miss Grey must needs have some business there before she descended,
but Miss Grey thought nothing of the kind, and they went down stairs
together.

Minola expected, she could not tell why, to see a small and withered man
in Mary Blanchet's brother. When they were entering the drawing-room, he
was looking out of the window, and had his back turned, and she was
surprised to see that he was decidedly tall. When he turned around she
saw not only that he was handsome, but that she had recognized the fact
of his being handsome before. For he was unmistakably the ideal poet of
schoolgirls whom she had met at Mr. Money's house the day before.

The knowledge produced a sort of embarrassment to begin with. Minola was
about to throw her soul into the sacrifice, and greet her friend's
brother with the utmost cordiality. But she had pictured to herself a
sort of Mary Blanchet in trousers, a gentle, old-fashioned, timid
person, whom, perhaps, the outer world was apt to misprize, if not even
to snub, and whom therefore it became her, Minola Grey, as an enemy and
outlaw of the common world, to receive with double consideration. But
this brilliant, self-conceited, affected, oppressively handsome young
man, on whom she had seen Lucy Money and her mother hanging devotedly,
was quite another sort of person. His presence seemed to overcharge the
room; the scene became all compound of tall, bending form and dark eyes.

"I am glad to see you, Mr. Blanchet," Miss Grey began, determined not to
be put out by any self-conceited poet and ideal of schoolgirls. "I must
be glad to see you, because you are Mary's brother."

"You ought rather to be not glad to see me for that reason," he said,
with a deprecating bow and a slight shrug of the shoulders, "for I have
been a very neglectful brother to Mary."

"So I have heard," Miss Grey said, "but not from Mary. She always
defended you. But I have seen you before, Mr. Blanchet, have I not?"

"At Mrs. Money's yesterday? Oh, yes; I only saw you, Miss Grey. I went
there to see you, and only in the most literal way got what I wanted."

"But, Herbert, you never told me that you were going, or that you knew
Mrs. Money," his sister interposed.

"No, dear; that was an innocent deceit on my part. You told me that Miss
Grey had gone there, and as I knew the Moneys I hurried away there
without telling you. I wanted to know what you were like, Miss Grey,
before seeing my sister again. I hope you are not angry? She is so
devoted to you that she painted you in colors the most bewitching; but I
was afraid her friendship was carrying her away, and I wanted to see for
myself when she was not present."

Miss Grey remained resolutely silent. She thought this beginning
particularly disagreeable, and began to fear that she should never be
able to like Mary Blanchet's brother. "Oh, why do women have brothers?"
she asked herself. There seemed something dishonest in Mr. Blanchet's
proceeding despite the frank completeness of his confession.

"Well, Herbert, confess that I didn't do her justice; didn't do her
common justice," the enthusiastic Mary exclaimed.

"If Miss Grey would not be offended," her brother said, "I would say
that I see in her just the woman capable of doing the kind and generous
things I have heard of."

"Yes; but we mustn't talk about it," the poetess said, with tears of
gratefulness blinking in her eyes; "and we'll not say a word more about
it, Minola; not a word, indeed, dear." And she put a deprecating little
hand upon Minola's arm.

Then they all sat down, and Herbert Blanchet began to talk. He talked
very well, and he seemed to have put away most of the airs of
affectation which, even in her very short opportunity of observation,
Minola had seen in him when he was talking to the Money girls.

"You have travelled a great deal," Miss Grey said. "I envy you."

"If you call it travelling. I have drifted about the world a good deal,
and seen the wrong sides of everything. I make it pay in a sort of way.
When any place that I know is brought into public notice by a war or
something of the kind, I write about it. Or if a place is not brought
into any present notice by anything, I write about it, and take a
different view from anybody else. I have done particularly well with
Italy, showing that Naples is the ugliest place in all the world; that
the Roman women have shockingly bad figures, and that the climate is
wretched from the Alps to the Straits of Messina.

"But you don't think that?" Mary Blanchet said wonderingly.

"Don't I? Well, I don't know. I almost think I do for the moment. One
can get into that frame of mind. Besides, I really don't care about
scenery. I don't observe it as I pass along. And I like to say what
other people don't say, and to see what they don't see. Of course I
don't put my name to any of these things; they are only done to make a
living. I live _on_ such stuff as that. I live _for_ Art."

"It is glorious to live for art," his sister exclaimed, pressing her
thin, tiny hands together.

Mr. Blanchet did not seem to care much about his sister's approval.

"My art isn't yours, Mary," he said, with a pitying smile. "Pictures of
flowers and little children saying their prayers, and nice poems about
good young men and women, are your ideas of painting and poetry, I am
sure. You are a lover of the human race, I know."

"I hope I love my neighbors," Mary said earnestly.

"I hope you do, dear. All good little women like you ought to do that.
Do _you_ love your neighbor, Miss Grey?"

"I don't care much for any one," Miss Grey answered decisively, "except
Mary Blanchet. But I have no particular principle or theory about it,
only that I don't care for people."

Although Miss Grey had Alceste for her hero, she did not like sham
misanthropy, which she now fancied her visitor was trying to display.
Perhaps too she began to think that his misanthropy rather caricatured
her own.

Miss Blanchet, on the contrary, was inclined to argue the question, and
to pelt her brother with touching commonplaces.

"The more we know people," she emphatically declared, "the more good we
see in them. In every heart there is a deep spring of goodness. Oh,
yes!"

"There isn't in mine, I know," he said. "I speak for myself."

"For shame, Herbert! How else could you ever feel impelled to try and do
some good for your fellow creatures?"

"But I don't want to do any good to my fellow creatures. I don't care
about my fellow creatures, and I don't even admit that they are my
fellow creatures, those men and those women too that one sees about. Why
should the common possession of two legs make us fellow creatures with
every man, more than with every bird? No, I don't love the human race at
all."

"This is nonsense, Minola; you won't believe a word of it," the little
poetess eagerly said, divided between admiration and alarm.

"You good, little, innocent dear, is it not perfectly true? What did I
ever do for you, let me ask? There, Miss Grey, you see as kind an elder
sister as ever lived. I remember her a perfect mother to me. I dare say
I should have been dead thirty years ago but for her, though whether I
ought to thank her for keeping me alive is another thing. Anyhow, what
was my way of showing my gratitude? As soon as I could shake myself
free, I rambled about the world, a very vagrant, and never took any
thought of her. We are all the same, Miss Grey, believe me--we men."

"I can well believe it," Miss Grey said.

"Of course you can. In all our dealings with you women we are just the
same. Our sisters and mothers take trouble without end for us, and cry
their eyes out for us, and we--what do we care? I am not worse than my
neighbors. But if you ask me, do I admire my fellow man, I answer
frankly, no. Not I. What should I admire him for?"

"One must live for something," the poetess pleaded, much perplexed in
her heart as to what Miss Grey's opinion might be about all this.

"Of course one must live for art; for music and poetry, and colors and
decoration."

"And Nature?" Mary Blanchet gently insinuated.

"Nature--no! Nature is the buxom sweetheart of ploughboy poets. We only
affect to admire Nature because people think we can't be good if we
don't. No one really cares about great cauliflower suns, and startling
contrasts of blazing purple and emerald green. There is nothing really
beautiful in Nature except her decay; her rank weeds, and dank grasses,
and funereal evening glooms."

While he talked this way he was seated on the piano stool, with his face
turned away from the piano, on whose keys he touched every now and then
with a light and seemingly careless hand, bringing out only a faint note
that seemed to help the conversation rather than to interrupt it. He was
very handsome, Minola could not help thinking, and there was something
in his colorless face and deep eyes that seemed congenial with the talk
of glooms and decay. Still, true to her first feeling toward all men,
Minola was disposed to dislike him, the more especially as he spoke with
an air of easy superiority, as one who would imply that he knew how to
maintain his place above women in creation.

"I thought all you poets affected to be in love with Nature," she said.
"I mean you younger poets," and she emphasized the word "younger" with a
certain contemptuous tone, which made it just what it meant to
be--"smaller poets."

"Why younger poets?"

"Well, because the elder ones I think really were in love with Nature,
and didn't affect anything."

He smiled pityingly.

"No," he said decisively, "we don't care about Nature--our school."

"I am from the country; I don't think I know what your school is."

"We don't want to be known in the country; we couldn't endure to be
known in the country."

"But fame?" Minola asked--"does fame not go outside the twelve-mile
radius?"

"Oh, Miss Grey, do pray excuse me, but you really don't understand us;
we don't want fame. What is fame? Vulgarity made immortal."

"Then what do you publish for?"

He rose from his seat and seized his hair with both hands; then
constrained himself to endurance, and sat down again.

"My dear young lady, we don't publish; we don't intend to publish. No
man in his senses would publish for us if we were never so well
inclined. No one could sell six copies. The great, thick-headed public
couldn't understand us. We are satisfied that the true artist never does
have a public--or look for it. The public can have their Tennysons, and
Brownings, and Swinburnes, and Tuppers, and all that lot----"

"That lot!" broke in Miss Blanchet, mildly horrified--"that lot!
Browning and Tupper put together!"

"My dear Mary, I don't know one of these people from another; I never
read any of them now. They are all the same sort of thing to me. These
persons are not artists; they are only men trying to amuse the public.
Some of them, I am told, are positively fond of politics."

"Don't your school care for politics?" Miss Grey asked, now growing
rather amused.

"Oh, no; we never trouble ourselves about such things. What can it
matter whether the Reform bill is carried--is there a Reform bill going
on now?--I believe there always is--or what becomes of the Eastern
Question, or whether New Zealand has a constitution? These are questions
for vestrymen, not artists; we don't love man."

"There I am with you," Miss Grey said; "if that alone were qualification
enough, I should be glad to be one of your fraternity, for I don't love
man; I think he is a poor creature at his best."

"So do I," said the poet, turning toward her with eyes in which for the
moment a deep and genuine feeling seemed to light up; "the poorest
creature, at his best! Why should any one turn aside for a moment from
his path to help such a thing? What does it matter, the welfare of him
and his pitiful race? Let us sing, and play, and paint, and forget him
and the destiny that he makes such a work about. Wisdom only consists in
shutting our ears to his cries of ambition, and jealousy, and pain, and
being happy in our own way and forgetting him."

Their eyes met for a moment, and then Minola lowered hers. In that
instant a gleam of sympathy had passed from her eyes into his, and he
knew it. She felt a little humiliated somehow, like a proud fencer
suddenly disarmed at the first touch of his adversary. For, as he was
speaking scorn of the human race, she was saying to herself, "This man,
I do believe, has suffered deeply. He has found people cold, and mean,
and selfish--as _I_ have--and he feels it, and cannot hide it. I did him
wrong; he is not a fribble or sham cynic, only a disappointed dreamer."
The sympathy which she felt showed itself only too quickly in her very
eloquent eyes.

Herbert Blanchet rose after an instant of silence and took his leave,
asking permission to call again, which Miss Grey would have gladly
refused if she could have stood up against the appealing looks of Mary.
So she had to grant him the permission, thinking as she gave it that
another path of her liberty was closed.

Mary went to the door with her brother, and, much to Minola's
gratification, remained a long time talking with him there.

Miss Grey went to the piano and began to sing; softly to herself, that
she might not be heard outside. The short autumnal day was already
closing in London. Out in the country there would be two hours yet of
light before the round, red sun went down behind the sloping fields,
with the fresh upturned earth, and the clumps of trees, but here, in
West-Central regions of London, the autumn day dies in its youth. The
dusk already gathered around the singer, who sang to please or to soothe
herself. In any troubled mood Miss Grey had long been accustomed to
clear her spirits by singing to herself; and on many a long, dull Sunday
at home--in the place that was called her home--she had committed the
not impious fraud of singing her favorite ballads to slow, slow time,
that they might be mistaken for hymns and pass unreproved. Her voice and
way of singing made the song seem like a sweet, plaintive recitative,
just the singing to hear in the "gloaming," to draw a few people hushed
around it, and hold them in suspense, fearful to lose a single note, and
miss the charm of expression. In truth, the charm of it sprang from the
fact that the singer sang to express her own emotions, and thus every
tone had its reality and its meaning. When women sing for a listening
company, they sing conventionally, and in the way that some teacher has
taught, or in what they believe to be the manner of some great artist;
or they sing to somebody or at somebody, and in any case they are away
from that truthfulness which in art is simply the faithful expression of
real emotion. With Minola Grey singing was an end rather than a means; a
relief in itself, a new mood in itself; a passing away from poor and
personal emotions into ideal regions, where melancholy, if it must be,
was always divine; and pain, if it would intrude, was purifying and
ennobling. So, while the little poetess talked with her brother in the
dusk, at the doorway, with the gas lamps just beginning to light the
monotonous street, Minola was singing herself into the pure blue ether,
above the fogs, and clouds, and discordant, selfish voices.

She came back to earth with something like a heavy fall, as Mary
Blanchet ran in upon her in the dark and exclaimed--

"Now, do tell me--how do you like my brother?"

To say the truth, Miss Grey did not well know. "I wonder is he an
Alceste?" she asked herself. On the whole, his coming had made an
uncomfortable, anxious, uncanny impression upon her, and she looked back
with a kind of hopeless regret on the days when she had London all to
herself, and knew nobody.




WORDSWORTH'S CORRECTIONS.


When an author, in his later editions, departs from his earlier text, he
is apt to reveal some traits of his method and genius that might not
otherwise have been so evident, and a poet's corrections may thus have
more than a merely curious interest. Take Mr. Tennyson's, for instance:
"The Princess," to say nothing of his shorter emended poems, has been,
one might say, rewritten since the first edition, and his corrections
are always interesting. Yet they spring, I think, from a narrower range
of motive than Wordsworth's; they are directed more exclusively toward
the object of artistic finish; they commonly show the poet busied in
casting perfume upon the lily. Take this example from "The Miller's
Daughter." In the first version of that poem, as it appeared in 1842, we
are told that before the heroine's reflection became visible in the
mill-pool--

  A water-rat from off the bank
    Plunged in the stream.

Later editions give us this more graceful version of what occurred:

  Then leapt a trout. In lazy mood
    I watch'd the little circles die;
  They passed into the level flood,
    And there a vision caught my eye.

Unquestionably that is an improvement, and of a sort which Wordsworth
was continually making. But Wordsworth's corrections do not merely
illustrate the effort to reach artistic finish, though very many of them
are made with that intent; they have a relation to his theories, tastes,
creeds, to his temperament and training, to his manner of receiving
friendly or hostile criticism; and in comparing these textual variations
we seem to watch the artist at his work--to enter in some sort into his
very consciousness--as we see him manipulating the form or the thought
of his verses:

  Tà dè torneúei, tà dè kollomeleî,
  Kaì gnômotupeî, k'autonomázei.

Nor is this to consider too curiously; Wordsworth himself has invited us
to the task. In his letters as well as in the notes to his poems,
frequent mention is made of these labors of emendation. Writing in 1837
to Edward Quillinan, he asks him to "take the trouble ... of comparing
the corrections in my last edition [that of 1836] with the text in the
preceding one," "in the correction of which I took great pains," as he
had written to Prof. Reed a month before. And there is ample opportunity
of this sort; I do not know an ampler one of the kind in the works of
any other poet. Tasso's _variæ lectiones_ are numerous, but they were
mostly made to conciliate his critics; Milton's are of great interest,
but they are comparatively few in number, and Gray's are fewer still:
Pope's are numerous, but not often interesting; while Tennyson's, as I
have intimated, seem to me to spring from a less serious poetic faculty
than Wordsworth's, and are therefore less significant. But I am anxious
not to claim too much significance for Wordsworth's corrections, for I
can do little more here than to point out some of them, leaving for the
most part their interpretation to the reader. To attempt more than this
would be to enter upon an analysis of Wordsworth's genius, for which
this is not the occasion.

And yet we shall see, I think, that his genius might be in some sort
"restored," as naturalists say, were it necessary, from these
fragmentary data, for Wordsworth's corrections cover the whole term of
his literary activity. He preferred, one might say, to correct after
publication rather than before; and, revising his youthful writing
during a second and a third generation following, his final texts had
received the benefit of more than half a century of criticism by himself
and others. From the year 1793, in which his first volumes appeared, the
"Evening Walk" and the "Descriptive Sketches," to the year of his death,
1850, he put forth not fewer than twenty-four separate publications in
verse, each of which contained more or less of poetry previously
unpublished; and in the greater number of these texts may be found
variations from the previous readings. The larger part of them, indeed,
are slight--the change of single words, the alteration of phrases, the
transposition of verses or stanzas. And yet few of them, I think, are
quite without interest for persons in whose reading, as Wordsworth
himself expresses it, "poetry has continued to be comprehended as a
study." I have noted some thousands of his corrections; but a copious
citation of them might weary all but actual students of poetic
_technique_, a class that is hardly as numerous, I suspect, as that of
the actual practitioners of poetry, and I will therefore keep mainly to
such _variæ lectiones_ as may be referred to motives of more general
interest.[B]

[Footnote B: After the early poems just mentioned and the "Lyrical
Ballads," 1798 to 1802, the chief editions to be consulted for the
changes of text are the complete editions of 1807, 1815, and 1836, and
the original issues of "The Excursion" (1814), of "The White Doe of
Rylston" (1815), of "Peter Bell," and of "The Waggoner" (1819).
Unfortunately I have not been able to get access to Mr. W. Johnston's
useful collection of Wordsworth's "Earlier Poems" (London, 1857): it
would have lightened the task of collecting the _variantes_, the more
important of which, for the period covered by the collection, are given
in it. But, having gone in nearly every case to the original texts, I
need hardly say that I have been careful to quote them accurately in the
present article.]

The first question which we naturally ask about Wordsworth's corrections
is this: Were they improvements? My readers will decide for themselves;
for my own part, it seems to me that they generally were improvements;
that Wordsworth bettered his text three times out of four when he
changed it. Nor is this surprising; few admirers of Wordsworth's poetry
will deny that there were many passages quite susceptible of amendment
in it; for that task there was ample room. But on the other hand, it
happened not infrequently, as we might expect, that when the poet
returned, in the critical mood, to mend his first form of expression, he
marred it instead. In the poem, for instance, beginning, "Strange fits
of passion have I known," the second stanza as originally published ran
thus:

  When she I loved was strong and gay,
    And like a rose in June,
  I to her cottage bent my way,
    Beneath the evening moon.
         --_Lyrical Ballads_, 1800.

The passage stood thus for many years, and was finally altered to read:

  When she I loved looked every day
    Fresh as a rose in June,
  I to her cottage bent my way,
    Beneath an evening moon.

Is there not some loss of vividness here? The later reading is perhaps
the more graceful, and yet the picture seems to me brighter in the early
version. This, too, seems a doubtful improvement; it occurs in "The
Farmer of Tilsbury Vale." Wordsworth wrote at first:

  His staff is a sceptre--his gray hairs a crown:
  Erect as a sunflower he stands, and the streak
  Of the unfaded rose is expressed on his cheek.
                   --1815.

In later editions we read:

  His bright eyes look brighter, set off by the streak
  Of the unfaded rose that still blooms on his cheek.

Here the last line is bettered; but I, for one, am sorry to lose the
sunflower comparison; it is picturesque, and it aptly describes this
hearty child of the earth.

Look now at the poem "We are Seven," as it began in the "Lyrical
Ballads":

  A simple child, dear brother Jim,
    That lightly draws its breath,
  And feels its life in every limb--
    What should it know of death?

It is now sixty years since "dear brother Jim" was dismissed from his
place in these lines--dismissed, perhaps, with the less compunction
because the stanza was written by another hand--Coleridge's--as an
introduction to the rest of the poem. But I think the lines were better
as the young poets first sent them forth. "Brother Jim" had, perhaps, no
clearly demonstrable business in the poem; and yet, having been there,
we miss him now that he is gone. That homely apostrophe had in it the
primitive impulses of the Lake school feeling; the phrase refuses to be
forgotten, and seems to have a persistent life of its own. I have seen
the missing words restored, in pencil marks, to their rightful place in
the text of copies belonging to old-fashioned gentlemen who remembered
the original reading. Nor can we easily deny existence to our "dear
brother Jim"; his name still lingers in our memories, haunting about the
page from which it was excluded long ago; he lives, and deserves to
live, as the symbol of immortal fraternity.

But as I have said, Wordsworth mended his text oftener than he marred
it, and first by refining upon his descriptions of outward nature. Among
the cases in point, one occurs in a poem entitled "Influences of Natural
objects in calling forth and strengthening the Imagination in Boyhood
and early Youth"--a cumbrous heading enough. May I digress for a moment
upon the unlucky titles which Wordsworth so often prefixed to his poems,
and the improvements occasionally made in them? Surely a less convenient
caption than the one just quoted is not often met with, or a less
attractive one than this other, prefixed to an inscription not very many
times longer than itself:

"Written at the Request of Sir George Beaumont, Bart., and in his Name,
for an Urn, placed by him at the termination of a newly-planted Avenue
in the same Grounds."

Titles like these are not only fatiguing in the very reading, a
preliminary disenchantment, but they are not properly names at all; they
are headings, rubrics, captions which do not name. Wordsworth seems to
send forth these unlucky children of the muse with a full description of
their eyes, hair, and complexion, but forgets to christen them; and I
believe that this oversight, though it may not appear a very serious
one, has interfered more than a little with the effectiveness of his
minor poetry, and consequently with the fame and influence of the poet.
For it makes reference to them difficult, almost impossible: how is one
to refer to a favorite passage, for instance, in a poem "Written at the
Request of Sir George Beaumont, Bart., and in his Name, for an Urn,
placed by him at the termination of a newly-planted Avenue in the same
Grounds"? These titles are fit to discourage even the admirers of
Wordsworth, and to repel his intending students; nor will they attract
any one, for they are formless; they are the abstracts of essays, the
_précis_ of an argument, rather than fit designations for works of
poetic art. A considerable number, too, of Wordsworth's minor pieces
remain without name, title, or description of any kind whatever. If that
desirable thing, a satisfactory edition of his poems, should ever
appear, it will be given us by some editor who shall be sensitive to
this northern formlessness, and who may venture, perhaps, to improve the
state of Wordsworth's titles.

Let me end this digression by noting another singular title, with its
emendation. In the "Lyrical Ballads" of 1798 appeared a poem with this
extraordinary caption:

"Anecdote for Fathers, shewing how the art of Lying may be taught."

Now, certainly, Wordsworth did not intend to teach the art of lying, yet
nothing can be clearer than his declaration. He failed to see the
ludicrous meaning of these words, and it took him thirty years,
apparently, to find out what he had said; but he saw it at last, and
dropped the explanatory clause of the title, quoting in its place an apt
motto from Eusebius; and we now read:

"Anecdote for Fathers. _Retine vim istam, falsa enim dicam, si coges_;"
and the charming story professes no longer to show how boys may be
taught to lie, but to point out the danger of making them lie when you
press them to give reasons for their sentiments.

And now, returning to the corrections of text in the descriptive
passages, let us note a curious change in the poem already mentioned,
"On the Influence of Natural Objects," etc. Wordsworth is describing the
pleasures of skating; and these are some of them, according to the
passage as originally published in "The Friend":

  Not seldom from the uproar I retired
  Into a silent bay--or sportively
  Glanced sideway, leaving the tumultuous throng
 _To cut across the image of a Star
  That gleamed upon the ice._

To do this is of course impossible, and the lines which I have
italicized are mere closet description. We cannot skate across the
reflection of a star until we can skate into the end of a rainbow; and
the curious thing is that the so-called "poet of nature" should ever
have fancied, even for a moment at his desk, that he had ever done it.
Clearly, Wordsworth's study was not always out of doors, to use a
favorite phrase of his; on the contrary, this passage is so unreal that
a critic unacquainted with the personal history of the poet might argue
that he had never been on skates--as Coleridge wrote the "Hymn in the
Valley of Chamouni" without ever visiting that valley. But Wordsworth
seems to have found out that his description was false; for he made a
compromise, in the later editions, with the optical law of incidence and
reflection; and we now see him attempting merely, but not achieving, the
impossible thing:

    ----Leaving the tumultuous throng
  To cut across the reflex of a star
  That fled, and, flying still before me, gleamed
  Upon the glassy plain.

But Wordsworth held stoutly, in the main, to his own experience, his own
impressions; and he did this even to the injury of his descriptions. He
was never, for instance, in sailor's phrase, "off soundings"; he never
saw the mid-ocean; and consequently, when he described Leonard, in the
first edition of "The Brothers," as sailing in mid-ocean, he says that
he gazed upon "the broad green wave and sparkling foam." But he found
out his mistake at last; he was fond of reading voyages and travels, and
he seems to have become convinced finally, perhaps by the testimony of
his sailor brother, that the deep sea was really blue and not green;
that the common epithet was the true one; for he corrected the line to
read "the broad blue wave."

Let us now examine some of those curiously prosaic passages which
Wordsworth strove faithfully to convert into poetry, and strove with
various success. And first, those famous arithmetical passages in "The
Thorn," one of which stands to-day as it stood in the "Lyrical Ballads."
We still read there, indeed, of

  A beauteous heap, a hill of moss,
  Just half a foot in height,

the precise altitude that Wordsworth gave it in 1798; not an inch to the
critics, he seems to have said. But these other peccant lines in the
preceding stanza he recast, and in a way that is curious to follow:

  And to the left, three yards beyond,
  You see a little muddy Pond
  Of water never dry:
  I've measured it from side to side:
  'Tis three feet long, and two feet wide.

Of these lines Crabb Robinson said to Wordsworth that "he dared not read
them aloud in company." "They ought to be liked," rejoined the poet.
Well, we may not like them; but they are interesting, for they present a
really instructive specimen of bad art. Clearly enough, here is a poet
in difficulties. The "little muddy pond" was not a pond in nature, but a
pool; and a pool it would have been in verse, but for the particular
exigency--the necessity of rhyming with the word _beyond_. Note now the
honesty of our poet. For rhyme's sake he has temporarily sacrificed
accuracy; he has called a pool a pond; but to show what the piece of
water actually was, that actually it was a pool, though the exigencies
of rhyme had forced him to call it provisionally by another name, he
goes on to give us its accurate measurement, not only from "side to
side," but from end to end as well. "'Tis three feet long and two feet
wide," he tells us; and now his northern conscience is satisfied; he
seems to say, "I was unfortunately compelled to use the wrong word in
this passage, but I make amends at once; these are the precise
dimensions of the object, and you can give it the right name yourself."
This devotion to the topographical truth of the matter was abated,
however, in later editions, perhaps by the derision of the critics.
Wordsworth rewrote the passage, one would say, to please the graces
rather than the mathematical verities; and the lines now read thus:

  You see a little muddy pond
  Of water, never dry,
  Though but of compass small, and bare
  To thirsty suns and parching air.

Another considerable improvement was made, a little further on, in the
same poem. These are the lines as they ran in the "Lyrical Ballads":

  Poor Martha! on that woful day
  A cruel, cruel fire, they say,
  Into her bones was sent;
  It dried her body like a cinder,
  And almost turned her brain to tinder.
                   --1798.

Certainly there was room for improvement here; and in the edition of
1815 we find the lines recast as follows:

  A pang of pitiless dismay
  Into her soul was sent;
  A Fire was kindled in her breast,
  Which might not burn itself to rest.

Or see again this prosaic passage from "The Brothers," as first
published in the "Lyrical Ballads." The lines describe the parting of
James from his companions at a certain rock:

    ----By our shepherds it is call'd the Pillar.
  James, pointing to its summit, over which
  They all had purposed to return together,
  Inform'd them that he there would wait for them;
  They parted, and his comrades pass'd that way
  Some two hours after, but they did not find him
  At the appointed place, a circumstance
  Of which they took no heed.
                   --1800.

It would occur to few readers to call this poetry were it not visibly
divided into verse; and Wordsworth himself seems to have thought as
much, for after many years he rewrote the passage, condensing and
poetizing it as follows:

  ----By our shepherds it is called THE PILLAR.
  Upon its airy summit crowned with heath
  The loiterer, not unnoticed by his comrades,
  Lay stretched at ease; but, passing by the place
  On their return, they found that he was gone.
  No ill was feared.

There are hundreds of corrections in this style; and we naturally ask
what made it necessary for Wordsworth to weed his poetic garden so
often, to amend with care and trouble what some other poets would have
done well at first? We need not hold with some of his critics that
Wordsworth had in any peculiar sense a dual nature, to explain the
amount of prosaic poetry, if I may call it so, that he wrote. No real
poet ever wrote, as I take it, a greater amount of prosaic poetry than
he; and no real poet ever published a greater number of verses that
might fairly be called not only poor poetry, but considered as proof
that their author could not write good poetry at all.

What critic would believe before the proof, that the poet who had
written the lines just quoted from "The Thorn," and others like them,
could have written also the "Lines to H. C." and "She Was a Phantom of
Delight"? But to inquire at length into this contrast is to inquire into
the deepest traits of Wordsworth's genius. One cause of his prosaic
verse, however, may be mentioned here. Wordsworth had injurious habits
of composition; he dictated his prose to an amanuensis, and he composed
his poems in the fields as he walked. He was thus a libertine of
opportunity, and though he strictly economized his subjects, and made
the least yield him up its utmost, yet he was prodigal in the quantity
of his expression. He did not wait for what are called moments of
inspiration; he was always ready to compose, and thus he composed too
much; he made verses whenever he was out of doors, "murmuring them out"
to the astonishment of the rustics. Doubtless the first factor of genius
is this abundance of power. But, on the other hand, the control, the
direction of power is the first essential to the beauty of the work of
art. "Good men may utter whatever comes uppermost; good poets may not,"
says Landor; and the aphorism touches upon a serious fault of
Wordsworth's method. He lacked due power of self-repression; he was too
much interested in his own thoughts to make a sufficiently jealous
choice among them when he came to write them down. Two qualities,
indeed, of his nature he kept in such abeyance, the amative and the
humorous--and he was not without a humorous side--as to express but
little of them in his writings. But he seems to have recorded almost
everything, not humorous or amatory, that came into his mind; and, in
consequence, we feel that his poetry comes perilously near being a
verbatim transcript of his processes of consciousness. But no man's
thought is always sufficiently valuable for a shorthand report; and we
often wish that Wordsworth had reflected, with Herrick, that the poet is
not fitted every day to prophesy:

  No; but when the spirit fills
  The fantastic pannicles
  Full of fire--then I write
  As the Godhead doth indite.

Does it seem an invidious task to recall the unhappy readings that I
have mentioned--readings abandoned by Wordsworth long ago, and unknown
to many of his younger students? To do it with slighting intent, or from
mere curiosity, would be unworthy; nor will the routine mind be
persuaded that there is anything more than a merely curious interest in
the comparison of editions. We, thinking that Wordsworth cannot really
be understood in a single edition, must leave the routine mind to its
conviction that one text contains all that there is of value in his
poetry. And to offset the ungraceful verses that we have just
considered, let us look at some changes by which Wordsworth has made
fine passages finer still. Of the sonnets published in 1819 with "The
Waggoner," none is more striking, as I think, than the one beginning,
"Eve's lingering clouds extend in solid bars." In it at first he spoke
as follows of the reflection of the heavens at night in perfectly still
water:

  Is it a mirror?--or the nether sphere
  Opening its vast abyss, while fancy feeds
  On the rich show?--But list! a voice is near;
  Great Pan himself low-whispering through the reeds.

In the later editions this passage is enriched by a grand stroke of
imagination:

  Is it a mirror?--or the nether sphere
  Opening to view the abyss in which she feeds
  Her own calm fires?--But list! a voice is near;
  Great Pan himself low-whispering through the reeds.

The following change is from the same sonnets; the passage describes a
bright star setting:

          Forfeiting his bright attire,
  He burns, transmuted to a sullen fire
  That droops and dwindles; and, the appointed debt
  To the flying moments paid, is seen no more.

So in 1819; in later editions we find the passage as follows:

  He burns, transmuted to a dusty fire,
  Then pays submissively the appointed debt
  To the flying moments, and is seen no more.

That is scarcely an improvement; but the alteration of epithet is
curious: the substitution of fact for fancy in changing the low star's
"sullen fire" into a "dusty fire."

Here, again, is a case where the new reading has a fresher phrase than
the old. It occurs in the last stanza of "Rob Roy's Grave," where
Wordsworth spoke thus of the hero's virtues:

  ----Far and near, through vale and hill,
  Are faces that attest the same;
  And kindle, like a fire new-stirred,
  At sound of ROB ROY's name.

Later, a new line was substituted as follows:

  ----Far and near, through vale and hill,
  Are faces that attest the same;
  The proud heart flashing through the eyes
  At sound of ROB ROY's name.

And Wordsworth insisted, quite as strongly as his severest critics, upon
finish, upon literary art as discriminable from the substance. While he
was blaming Byron, Campbell, and other eminent poets for its lack, his
assailants were loud in the same charge against him; they protested that
whatever other merits the new poetry might have, that of artistic finish
was surely not one. Jeffrey wrote in 1807 that Wordsworth "scarcely ever
condescended to give the grace of correctness or melody to his
versification." But Wordsworth, in a letter lately first published,
criticises Campbell's "Hohenlinden" in a way that shows him by no means
unstudious of form. He writes thus to Mr. Hamilton:[C] "I remember
Campbell says, in a composition that is overrun with faulty language,
'And dark as winter was the _flow_ of Iser rolling rapidly'; that is,
'flowing rapidly.' The expression ought to have been 'stream' or
'current.' ... These may appear to you frigid criticisms," he adds; "but
depend upon it, no writings will live in which these rules are
disregarded." This is good doctrine, and we have seen Wordsworth
striving to realize it in his practice. He did realize it to a certain
extent; if his style was not always eloquent, not always poetical, it
was generally better English than that of his popular contemporaries.
And yet a critic in "The Dial," following, as recently as 1843, the lead
of Jeffrey in this blame of Wordsworth, could write of him as
follows:[D] "He has the merit of just moral perception, but not that of
deft poetic execution. How would Milton curl his lip at such slip-shod
newspaper style! Many of his poems, as for example the 'Rylstone Doe,'
might be all improvised.... These are such verses as in a just state of
culture should be _vers de Société_, such as every gentleman could
write, but none would think of printing." That passage is worth reading
twice; note the condescension of the praise, the flippancy of the blame,
the inaccurate English and French; and what a jaunty misquotation of
Wordsworth's title! It was not very profitable censure; but Wordsworth
received much criticism by which he was glad to profit. Let us look at
some of the cases in which he turned the strictures of friends or of
enemies to account. The changes that he made in deference to criticism
are striking, and so too are some of the cases in which he refused to
profit by criticism. I will speak of both.

[Footnote C: "Prose Works," III., 302.]

[Footnote D: "The Dial," Vol. III., p. 514.]

Of the former kind are the corrections in "Laodamia." That poem appeared
first in 1815, having been suggested during a course of classical
reading which Wordsworth had taken up for the purpose of directing the
studies of his son. Landor criticised this poem in the first volume of
his "Imaginary Conversations," and in the main very favorably; he makes
Porson say that parts of it "might have been heard with shouts of
rapture in the regions he describes"; he calls it "a composition such as
Sophocles might have delighted to own." But he points out blemishes in
two stanzas, the first and the seventeenth; he blames the execution of
one and the thought of the other. Wordsworth rewrote both of them, and I
quote the second passage as affording the more interesting change. In
the first edition Protesilaus, says the poet, returning from the shades
to visit Laodamia,

  Spake, as a witness, of a second birth
  For all that is most perfect upon earth.

On this Landor remarks, putting the words into Porson's mouth:

    How unseasonable is the allusion to _witness_ and _second_
    birth, which things, however holy and venerable in
    themselves, come stinking and reeking to us from the
    conventicle. I desire to see Laodamia in the silent and
    gloomy mansion of her beloved Protesilaus; not elbowed by
    the godly butchers in Tottenham court road, nor smelling
    devoutly of ratafia among the sugar bakers' wives at
    Blackfriars.

Wordsworth dropped these lines; and we now read instead, that the hero

  Spake of heroic arts in graver mood
  Revived, with finer harmony pursued.

In the first volume of his "Imaginary Conversations" Landor said of
Wordsworth: "Those who attack him with virulence or with levity are men
of no morality and no reflection." In a later volume, however, Landor
attacks him thus himself, with both virulence and levity, as I fear we
must say, and Wordsworth declined to profit by these later gibing
criticisms, though some of them, and especially those upon the "Anecdote
for Fathers," were valuable, and suggested real improvements of text. In
this attack, which is contained in the second conversation of Southey
and Porson, Landor had noticed Wordsworth's adoption of his earlier
criticism of Laodamia; and this circumstance was probably a reason why
Wordsworth refused to receive further critical favors at his hands. The
poem "Goody Blake and Harry Gill," for instance, sharply criticised by
Landor, stood almost untouched through the editions of fifty years. And
in a letter of 1843, recently published for the first time,[E]
Wordsworth speaks thus severely of an attack made upon his son-in-law,
Edward Quillinan, by Landor: "I should have disapproved of his
[Quillinan's] condescending to notice anything that a man so deplorably
tormented by ungovernable passion as that unhappy creature might eject.
His character may be given in two or three words: a madman, a bad man;
yet a man of genius, as many a madman is." That criticism seems rather
more than righteously severe; but Wordsworth, while he cared little for
the criticism of the reviews, felt keenly the lash of the violent
Landor. The violent Landor we must call him, for violence was the too
dominant trait of his noble genius; and he exasperated Wordsworth, as we
see. But compare what I have just quoted with his familiar remark about
the small critics: "My ears are stone dead to this idle buzz, and my
flesh as insensible as iron to these petty stings." That Wordsworth said
at thirty-six years of age; and here is a striking reminiscence recorded
during his later years, and published in the "Prose Works." At
seventy-one he said to Lady Richardson:

    It would certainly have been a great object to me to have
    reaped the profits I should have done from my writings but
    for the stupidity of Mr. Gifford and the impertinence of Mr.
    Jeffrey. It would have enabled me to purchase many books
    which I could not obtain, and I should have gone to Italy
    earlier, which I never could afford to do until I was
    sixty-five, when Moxon gave me a thousand pounds for my
    writings. This was the only kind of injury Mr. Jeffrey did
    me, for I immediately perceived that his mind was of that
    kind that his individual opinion on poetry was of no
    consequence to me whatever; that it was only by the
    influence his periodical exercised at the time in preventing
    my poems being read and sold that he could injure me.... I
    never, therefore, felt his opinion of the slightest value
    except in preventing the young of that generation from
    receiving impressions which might have been of use to them
    through life.

[Footnote E: "Prose Works," III., 381.]

This is grand self-confidence; and it is in the same tone that elsewhere
he says:

    Feeling that my writings were founded on what was true and
    spiritual in human nature, I knew the time would come when
    they must be known.

In this connexion the English reviews of that time are still interesting
reading, particularly the "Quarterly" and the "Edinburgh." What was
Jeffrey saying in his "organ" during the years of Wordsworth's earlier
fame? In 1807 he described the poem of "The Beggars" as "a very paragon
of silliness and affectation"; and he said of "Alice Fell," "If the
printing of such verses be not felt as an insult on the public taste, we
are afraid it cannot be insulted." Two years later he calls upon the
patrons of the Lake school of poetry to "think with what infinite
contempt the powerful mind of Burns would have perused the story of
Alice Fell and her duffle cloak, of Andrew Jones and the half-crown, or
of little Dan without breeches and his thievish grandfather." Wordsworth
dropped the poem of "Andrew Jones," and never restored it--an omission
almost unique, as we shall see; for he stood by the substance of his
work, if not always by the form, with great pertinacity. He said of
"Alice Fell," in his old age, "It brought upon me a world of ridicule by
the small critics, so that in policy I excluded it from many editions of
my poems, till it was restored at the request of some of my friends."
Wordsworth had no stancher friend, his poetry had no more delicate
critic, than Charles Lamb; and Lamb wrote thus in 1815 to Wordsworth
about "Alice Fell" and the assailants of the poem. He said: "I am glad
that you have not sacrificed a verse to those scoundrels. I would not
have had you offer up the poorest rag that lingered upon the stript
shoulders of little Alice Fell, to have atoned all their malice: I would
not have given 'em a red cloak to save their souls."

Jeffrey decried two other pieces that rank among the most perfect of
Wordsworth's minor poems, as "stuff about dancing daffodils and sister
Emmelines," and spoke of another, which we count for pure poetry to-day,
as "a rapturous, mystical ode to the cuckoo, in which the author,
striving after force and originality, produces nothing but absurdity."
And he attacked these lines in the "Ode to Duty":

  Thou dost preserve the stars from wrong:
  And the most ancient heavens through thee are fresh and strong.

This, Jeffrey said, is "utterly without meaning: at least we have no
sort of conception in what sense Duty can be said to keep the old skies
_fresh_, and the stars from wrong." We need not be surprised at
Jeffrey's failing to admire these lines: they are transcendentalism, and
it would have troubled Wordsworth himself to render them into the plain
speech which he recommended as the proper diction of poetry. For they
have not a definite translatable content of thought; and we cannot read
them as philosophy or ethics; but as poetry we may feel their power; we
are willing to enjoy them for their own sake, because beauty is enough.
But this Jeffrey did not admit; Jeffrey was not vulnerable by
magnificent phrases, and of course he could not foresee what a power
Wordsworth's transcendentalism was to exert. When the ode "Intimations
of Immortality" first appeared (with the edition of 1807), Jeffrey
called it "the most illegible and unintelligible part of the
publication."[F] The remark need not surprise us. Jeffrey looked for
logical thought in the poem, and logical thought it had not; whatever
else it may contain, it will hardly be said to propound any new
arguments for immortality. But Jeffrey wrote in all sincerity, and later
in his life he read Wordsworth's poetry a second time, with a view to
discover, if he could, the merits which he had failed to see when he
criticised it--the merits which the English public had then found out.
His effort was a failure: for him the primrose remained a primrose to
the last, and nothing more. The acute lawyer was not a poet, nor a judge
of poets; he had an erroneous notion of what the office of poetry is; of
what it has been and will be--to please, to elevate, to suggest, but not
to argue or convince; and to the last he did not get beyond his early
decision, which, in the article just quoted from, runs as follows:

    We think there is every reason to hope that the lamentable
    consequences which have resulted from Mr. Wordsworth's open
    violation of the established laws of poetry, will operate as
    a wholesome warning to those who might otherwise have been
    seduced by his example, and be the means of restoring to
    that ancient and venerable code its honor and authority.


[Footnote F: "Edinburgh Review," October, 1807.]

But the critic cannot always tell what the new "song is destined to, and
what the stars intend to do." It is now evident enough where the early
assailants of Wordsworth were mistaken; and yet which critic of to-day
would be sure of his ground in a similar case? For the faults of genius
are old, familiar, and easily to be discerned; while, on the other hand,
genius itself is always novel, and therefore may be easily mistaken. It
takes genius to recognize genius; and most of Wordsworth's critics were
not men of genius. Landor, who was one, made a wise remark upon this
point. He said, "To compositions of a new kind, like Wordsworth's, we
come without scales and weights, and without the means of making an
assay."

But by pointing out his faults, his critics did him and us a service;
and it was one by which the poet profited, as we have seen, in spite of
his independence.

Let us now look at some of Wordsworth's multiple readings, if we may
call them so--passages, namely, in which he has returned, year after
year, to certain peccant verses, changing them again and again in the
quest of adequate expression. After repeated experiments he sometimes
finds a reading to please himself; sometimes, having allowed a
provisional text to stand throughout many years, he discards it and
returns to the original form; and sometimes, again, he abandons a
passage entirely, after scarring it with a lifetime's emendations. Of
the first sort I will cite three readings of a stanza in "A Poet's
Epitaph." As first published in the "Lyrical Ballads" of 1800, the poem
contained this adjuration to the philosopher "wrapped in his sensual
fleece":

  O turn aside, and take, I pray,
  That he below may rest in peace,
  Thy pin-point of a soul away!

Lamb did not like this; and he wrote to Wordsworth: "The 'Poet's
Epitaph' is disfigured, to my taste, by the coarse epithet of
'pin-point' in the sixth stanza." In the edition of 1815 the "coarse
epithet" disappears, and the passage is modified as follows:


       ----Take, I pray,
  That he below may rest in peace,
  That abject thing, thy soul, away!

The years that "bring the philosophic mind" did not, however, reconcile
Wordsworth with the particular "philosopher" here in question. (Sir
Humphrey Davy, as Crabb Robinson, if I am not mistaken, tells us). On
the contrary, the poet devised a still more injurious epithet for that
unhappy physicist; and the passage now reads:

  ----Take, I pray,...
  Thy ever-dwindling soul away!

Another of these multiple corrections has attracted much notice; it
occurs in the successive descriptions of the craft wherein the "Blind
Highland Boy" went sailing. In the first edition of that poem Wordsworth
called it

  A Household Tub, like one of those
  Which women use to wash their clothes!

It would seem difficult to defend this couplet upon any accepted theory
of aesthetics, rhyme, or syntax; and the "Household Tub" provoked quite
naturally a shout of derision from all the critics; it became the
poetical scandal of the day. Jeffery, mindful of "the established laws"
of poetic art, protested that there was nothing, down to the wiping of
shoes, or the evisceration of chickens, which may not be introduced in
poetry, if this is tolerated. The tub, in short, proved intolerable to
the reviewers; and when next the poem appeared in a new edition, that of
1815, Wordsworth transmuted the craft into a green turtle shell, noting
the change as made "upon the suggestion of a Friend":

  The shell of a green Turtle, thin
  And hollow: you might sit therein,
    It was so wide and deep.
  'Twas even the largest of its kind,
  Large, thin, and light as birch tree rind;
  So light a shell that it would swim,
  And gaily lift its fearless brim
    Above the tossing waves.

Lamb's comment upon this change was as follows:

    I am afraid lest that substitution of a shell (a flat
    falsification of the history) for the household implement,
    as it stood at first, was a kind of tub thrown out to the
    beast, or rather thrown out for him. The tub was a good
    honest tub in its place, and nothing could be fairly said
    against it. You say you made the alteration for the
    "friendly reader," but the "malicious" will take it to
    himself. Damn 'em, if you give 'em an inch, etc.

Wordsworth, however, instead of restoring the old text, went on
amending, and with reason; the reading just given is diffuse. But see
now the third and final form which he gave to the passage. The
sublimation of the Household Tub is now completed; it becomes, at last,

  A shell of ample size, and light
  As the pearly car of Amphitrite,
    That sportive dolphins draw.
  And as a Coracle that braves
  On Vaga's breast the fretful waves,
  This shell upon the deep would swim.

Here again are some new readings that Wordsworth discarded after long
trial. A well-known sonnet, one of his earliest, began thus in 1807:

  I grieved for Buonaparte, with a vain
  And an unthinking grief! The vital blood
  Of that Man's mind, what can it be? What food
  Fed his first hopes? What knowledge could he gain?

In 1815 we find the passage rewritten as follows:

  I grieved for Buonaparte, with a vain
  And an unthinking grief! for, who aspires
  To genuine greatness but from just desires,
  And knowledge such as He could never gain?

But in the later editions the first reading was restored, except the
words "vital blood," and we now read:

          The tenderest mood
  Of that man's mind, what can it be?

In "The Nightingale" Wordsworth first called that bird "a creature of a
fiery heart"; but in the edition of 1815 it became "a creature of
ebullient heart," a flat disenchantment of the verse. The change was
questioned from the first, as Crabb Robinson tells us, and in later
editions the first reading was restored. A fortunate correction made in
the same edition was retained--the change of "laughing company" to
"jocund company," in "The Daffodils":

  A poet could not but be gay
  In such a jocund company.
                   --1815.

The poem "Rural Architecture," in the "Lyrical Ballads" of 1800, was
curtailed of its closing stanza in the edition of 1815:

  Some little I've seen of blind boisterous works
  In Paris and London, 'mong Christians and Turks,
  Spirits busy to do and undo, etc., etc.

But in Lamb's correspondence of the same year he complains to Wordsworth
that the omission "leaves it [the poem] in my mind less complete," and
the lines were restored in the later editions. Not to differ hastily
with Lamb, the lines yet seem lines to be spared. In the same sentence
he complains that in the new edition there is another "admirable line
gone (or something come instead of it), 'the stone-chat, and the
glancing sandpiper,' which was a line quite alive. I demand these at
your hand." Wordsworth restored the line, and the three versions of the
passage are worth comparison. It is from the "Lines left upon a Seat in
a Yew Tree," and describes a wanderer in the solitude of the country:

  His only visitants a straggling sheep,
  The stone-chat, or the glancing sand-piper:
  And on these barren rocks, with juniper,
  And heath, and thistle, thinly sprinkled o'er,
  Fixing his downcast eye, he many an hour
 A morbid pleasure nourished.
                   --"Lyrical Ballads."

In the second reading he corrects a bad assonance thus:

  His only visitants a straggling sheep,
  The stone-chat, or the sand-lark, restless bird,
  Piping along the margin of the lake....
                   --1815.

Here the "line quite alive" is gone--to be restored in deference,
apparently, to Lamb's request. Another assonance is got rid of in the
later editions, the "thistle thinly sprinkled o'er," and the passage now
reads melodiously as follows:

  His only visitants a straggling sheep.
  The stone-chat, or the glancing sand-piper:
  And on these barren rocks, with fern and heath,
  And juniper and thistle, sprinkled o'er,
  Fixing his downcast eye, he many an hour
  A morbid pleasure nourished.

Wordsworth struck out many lines and stanzas in the course of his
revisions, besides main passages of considerable length, as from the
"Thanksgiving Ode" and the patriotic ode of January, 1816. These
omissions are too long to quote here; but the following lines dropped
from the ode on "Immortality" will have interest; they are not to be
found, I think, in any English edition since that of 1815. Addressing
the child over whom Immortality, in the language of the ode,

  Broods like the Day, a Master o'er a Slave,
  A Presence which is not to be put by--

this earlier reading continues:

       To whom the grave
  Is but a lonely bed without the sense or sight
    Of day or the warm light:
  A place of thought where we in waiting lie.

Another notable omitted passage is the introduction to "Dion," published
in 1816:

  Fair is the Swan, whose majesty, prevailing
  O'er breezeless water on Locarno's lake....

Here nineteen lines full of beauty are sacrificed by Wordsworth in the
interest of the unity of the poem. He struck out, too, some lines from
"The Daisy," "The Thorn," and "Simon Lee," and eight stanzas have
disappeared from "Peter Bell" since the first edition of that poem.
Among them are these grotesque lines, favorites with Charles Lamb:

  Is it a party in a parlour?
  Cramm'd just as they on earth were cramm'd--
  Some sipping punch, some sipping tea,
  All silent and all damn'd!

And here are some verses that have interest from the glimpse they give
of Wordsworth's faculty in a field that he declined to cultivate--the
amatory or "fleshly," as it has been conveniently named for us of late.
I quote from that rare book, the "Descriptive Sketches" of 1793; and as
the lines are not included in any edition of his poems, they are
unfamiliar to most readers. But two copies of this book, so far as I
know, exist in this country. One of them, which belonged to the late
Prof. Henry Reed, Wordsworth's American editor, is full of corrections
in Wordsworth's own handwriting; and it is by the courtesy of its
present owner that I am enabled to give here the early text with these
corrections, never before printed. The young Wordsworth takes leave of
Switzerland, at the conclusion of his pedestrian tour, with this glowing
apostrophe:

              ye                the
  Farewell! those forms that in thy noontide shade
            your
  Rest near their little plots of oaten glade,
   Dark
  Those stedfast eyes, that beating breasts inspire,
  To throw the "sultry rays" of young Desire;
                   soft
  =Those= lips whose ^ tides of fragrance come and go
  Accordant to the cheek's unquiet glow;
    Ye                              warm
  Those shadowy breasts In love's soft light array'd
  And rising by the moon of passion sway'd.[G]

[Footnote G:
I venture to note, in passing, a small class of corrections in which the
poet has cleared his text from certain innocencies of expression that
were liable to be misread by persons on the alert for double meanings.
The following are among the Wordsworthian simplicities that have been
amended in the later editions; the reference is made to the octavos of
1815, which may be compared with any of the editions since 1836:

Vol. I., page 111, "The Brothers," passage beginning, "James, tired
perhaps."

Vol. I., page 210, "Michael," passage beginning, "Old Michael, while he
was a babe in arms."

Vol. I., page 223, "Laodamia," stanza beginning, "Be taught, O faithful
Consort."]

Wordsworth thus dropped, for one reason or another, many passages from
his poems. But did he abandon entire poems? That did not often happen.
He strove patiently to perfect the form of his thought; but he was
unwilling to let the substance of it go. In the seven volumes of his
poetry, as they now stand, but two poems are lacking, to the best of my
knowledge, of all that he ever published. One of these, an unimportant
piece beginning, "The confidence of youth our only art," was printed
with the "Memorials of a Tour on the Continent" (1822), and no longer
appears in the collected editions. The other missing poem, "Andrew
Jones," was abandoned for reasons, as I think, of considerable critical
interest. In the "Lyrical Ballads" it began thus:

  I hate that Andrew Jones: he'll breed
  His children up to waste and pillage:
  I wish the press-gang or the drum
  With its tantara sound would come,
  And sweep him from the village!

This poem may be found (with, slight emendations) as late as the edition
of 1815; but after that date I meet with it nowhere but in foreign
reprints. Why was it dropped? It is doubtless a story of unrelieved
though petty suffering; it corresponds, in small, to what Mr. Matthew
Arnold calls the "poetically faulty" situation of Empedocles, a
situation "in which there is everything to be endured, nothing to be
done." But, on the other hand, that fragment of Æschylus, the
"Prometheus Bound," in which everything is endured and nothing done, yet
remains a work of the deepest interest: nor need we think that
Wordsworth abandoned his little poem for a reason so refined as that
which led Mr. Arnold to abandon one of his own. There was, as I take it,
a moral reason which led to Wordsworth's decision; namely, that the
story of "Andrew Jones" is told with bitterness of feeling from
beginning to end; and against bitterness of feeling Wordsworth had
recorded, during his earlier years, a striking protest. We shall read it
presently; but first let us couple with the poem a sentence from his
prose--a sentence full of the same feeling, and which was early dropped
for the same reason. We shall find it in the edition of 1815, in the
essay supplementary to the famous Preface of that date. There Wordsworth
turns upon his critics as follows:

"By what fatality the orb of my genius (for genius none of them seem to
deny me) acts upon these men like the moon upon a certain description of
patients, it would be irksome to enquire: nor would it consist with the
respect which I owe myself to take further notice of opponents whom I
internally despise."

This is not quite in the vein of the serenely meditative poet; and if we
look back to a time twenty years earlier than this, we shall find that
Wordsworth had reproved his heat beforehand. In 1795, when he first
chose definitely the poet's career, he had written these lines:

  If thou be one whose heart the holy forms
  Of young imagination have kept pure,
  Stranger! henceforth be warned; and know that pride,
  Howe'er disguised in its own majesty,
  Is littleness: that he who feels contempt
  For any living thing, hath faculties
  Which he has never used: that thought with him
  Is in its infancy.

That is the teaching of earlier and serener years, of the time when the
poet was still quietly embayed in youth, when jealous criticism, and
envy, and disappointment were still trials of the future. Youth has its
own passions; but it has also its peculiar serenity; and after
Wordsworth had passed through the stormy years which gave him fame, we
see the maturer man recalling the teaching of his calmer self. It was in
obedience to this, as I believe, that he cancelled the passages that
have just been mentioned; feeling their discord with the pure song of
that early time.

Let us now look at some of the passages which Wordsworth has emended,
not by taking away from the words of his book, but by adding to them. As
he wrote to Mr. Dyce, he diligently revised the "Excursion," in the
edition of 1827, and got the sense "in several instances, ... into less
room"; and minor changes are to be counted by hundreds. But he made some
additions to this poem, and for significant reasons.

Readers of Christopher North's essay, in the "Recreations," on "Sacred
Poetry," will remember the long indictment which he there brings against
the earlier poems of Wordsworth; he complains of them as being
irreligious. It is interesting to find the earthly Christopher
displaying the pious zeal of an inquisitor in the matter, declaring that
in all of Wordsworth's writings, up to the "Excursion," "though we have
much fine poetry, and some high philosophy, it would puzzle the most
ingenious to detect much, if any, Christian religion"; and lamenting its
absence even in the "Excursion," in the story of "Margaret," as told in
the first book. This tale Christopher North calls "perhaps the most
elaborate picture he [Wordsworth] ever painted of any conflict within
any one human heart;" but he adds, with how much sincerity we will not
now ask, that it "is, with all its pathos, repulsive to every religious
mind--_that_ being wanting without which the entire representation is
vitiated.... This utter absence of Revealed Religion ... throws over the
whole poem to which the tale of Margaret belongs an unhappy suspicion of
hollowness and insincerity in that poetical religion which at the best
is a sorry substitute indeed for the light that is from heaven."

That Wordsworth laid to heart this criticism, will appear on comparing
the original passage, as reprobated by Christopher North, with the form
which the poet gave it in the latter editions. Originally the peddler,
finishing the story of "Margaret," moralizes thus:

  My Friend! enough to sorrow you have given;
  The purposes of wisdom ask no more:
  Be wise and cheerful, and no longer read
  The forms of things with an unworthy eye;
  She sleeps in the calm earth, and peace is here.
  I well remember that those very plumes,
  Those weeds, and the high spear-grass on that wall,
  By mist and silent raindrops silvered o'er,
  As once I passed, into my heart convey'd
  So still an image of tranquillity,
  So calm and still, and look'd so beautiful
  Amid the uneasy thoughts which fill'd my mind,
  That what we feel of sorrow and despair
  From ruin and from change, and all the griefs
  The passing shows of Being leave behind,
  Appear'd an idle dream, that could not live
  Where meditation was. I turn'd away,
  And walk'd along my road in happiness.

"What meditation?" cries out Christopher North. "Turn thou, O child of a
day, to the New Testament, and therein thou mayest find comfort." And
Wordsworth in his revision made the following additions to this fine
pagan passage:

    ----Enough to sorrow you have given;
  The purposes of wisdom ask no more:
  Nor more would she have craved as due to one
  Who in her worst distress, had often felt
  The unbounded might of prayer; and learned, with soul
  Fixed on the cross, that consolation springs
  From sources deeper far than deepest pain
  For the meek sufferer. Why then should we read
  The forms of things with an unworthy eye?
  She sleeps in the calm earth, and peace is here.

Then follow the beautiful lines about the weeds, the spear-grass, the
mist and rain-drops, as quoted above; but the close of the passage is
extended as follows:

                   ----All the griefs
  That passing shows of Being leave behind,
  Appeared an idle dream, that could maintain
  Nowhere dominion o'er the enlightened spirit
  Whose meditative sympathies repose
  Upon the breast of Faith. I turned away,
  And walked along my road in happiness.

It remains to be said that a certain number of Wordsworth's poems--and
these were, as we might expect, among his best--have stood unchanged in
all the editions from the first, running the gauntlet of their author's
critical moods for half a century, and coming out untouched at last. I
will not call them uncorrected poems, but rather poems in which all the
needed corrections were made before their first publication, for they
belong to that exquisite class of creations--too small a class, even in
the works of the greatest masters--in which the poet has fused
completely the refractory element of language before pouring it out into
the mould of poetic form. Among these untouched poems are three from the
"Lyrical Ballads"--"A slumber did my spirit seal," "Three years she grew
in sun and shower," and "She dwelt among the untrodden ways"--all
written at the age of twenty-nine; such are the "Yew Tree," written four
years later, and "She was a phantom of delight." Several of the best
sonnets, too, were unchanged; as that on "Westminster Bridge," and
"Milton! thou shouldst be living at this hour."

And lastly, I may mention one or two changes of text which Wordsworth
did not make, but which belong to the class for which careless editors
or proofreaders are responsible. An edition well known to the American
public is especially peccant in this respect; that beautiful line, for
instance, in "The Pet Lamb"--

  And that green corn all day is rustling in thy ears,

becomes,

  That green cord all day is rustling in thy ears.

And here is a really interesting _erratum_; it occurs in the poem of
"The Idiot Boy," where it has stood unnoticed for twenty years and more.
Wordsworth's stanzas, describing the boy's night-long ride under the
moon, "from eight o'clock till five," hearing meanwhile "the owls in
tuneful concert strive," originally put these words into his mouth, the
actual words of his hero, as Wordsworth tells us in a note:

  The cocks did crow to-whoo, to-whoo,
  And the Sun did shine so cold,
  Thus answered Johnny in his glory.

But this reading puzzled the proofreader. How could the sun shine at
night? This being clearly impossible, he restored the idiot boy to
partial sanity. He made him say:

  The cocks did crow to-whoo, to-whoo,
  And the Moon did shine so cold;

and the only wonder is that he did not also read,

  The cocks did crow cock-a-doodle-doo.

Some one proposes, I believe, a similar emendation in "As You Like It,"
intending to make the Duke speak better sense than Shakespeare put into
his mouth. He is to say,

                Sermons in books.
  Stones in the running brooks, and good in everything.

But while in the main the text of Shakespeare is bettering under
criticism, Wordsworth is suffering miscorrection; and for the good that
he has to give us we cannot quite dispense with the original editions.

                   TITUS MUNSON COAN.




PORTRAIT D'UNE JEUNE FEMME INCONNUE,

GALERIE DE FLORENCE.


  I saw a picture in a gallery:
  Go where I will, it still abides with me.
  The hair rich brown, one lovely golden tress
  Strayed from the braid and touched the loveliness
  Of the fair neck, so smooth, so white, so young,
  It shamed the pearls a prince's hand had strung.
  The dress is white, with here and there a gleam
  Of amber brilliant, sunlight on a stream!
  And hanging on her arm, a scarf; the thing
  About that glorious head and neck to fling,
  Protecting from the night, scarlet and black and gold,
  And gems are woven in each gleaming fold.
  The picture has that gracious air which tells
  The hand that painted it was Raphael's.
  They know she's beautiful, and know no more.
  Thus questioned I, as many did before:
  "Why art thou sad, thou delicate, proud face?
  Thou art a Dame of bright and cheerful race,
  Thy fortunes grand, thy home this Florence fair.
  Does an unworthy heart thy palace share?
  Or with a soft caprice dost turn from joy,
  And play with sorrow as a costly toy?
  Or has thy page forgotten, or done worse--
  Failed he to find the fond expected verse
  Thy lover promised thee? I know not why
  I linger near thee, beautiful and sad,
  Yet with such sorrow, who would have thee glad?"
  (Is she not gifted with the anointed eye
  That sees the trouble of the passer-by?)
  "Is thine that great, that tender sympathy
  That calls all heart-aches nearer unto thee?
  Or a great soul with aspirations rife,
  Feeling the insufficiency of this our life?
  Thou hast attraction of a grander tone,
  Some charm more subtle e'en than beauty's own!
  "Though woman throws no greater lure than this,
  The lip regretful which we fain would kiss,
  The eye made softer by the unfallen tear,
  And sunlight brighter for the shadow near.
  Why do I ask? will woman ever tell
  The secret of the charm that fits her well?"
  She did not answer, sweet, mysterious Dame.
  I left her sadly, locked in gilded frame.

                   M. E. W. S.




MISS TINSEL.

A GOLD-MINER'S LOVE STORY.--IN FIVE CHAPTERS.




CHAPTER I.

A GOLD-DIGGING RECLUSE.


On a knoll, not far from a running stream, was pitched a rough canvas
tent. It was of the "wall" sort, and was pegged to the ground with
strong fastenings. Inside were a hammock, a coarse table, two or three
stools, and some boxes and barrels. There were likewise a gridiron, a
"spider," an iron kettle, some tin dishes and cups, and a pair of
candlesticks of the same material. Outside there was a trench dug, by
way of drainage, so that the floor within was kept hard and dry; but the
floor was of earth merely. There was not a flower, or a picture, or the
least attempt at ornament whatever within the tent. Hence the interior
looked bare, sordid, and forbidding. And yet, grim as it was, the tent
had been the solitary abode of its occupant for many months. In the
midst of gold, in quantity outstripping the wildest dreams of his
boyhood, this man had chosen to be a miser. In the midst of a society
whose reckless joviality and wild profusion were perhaps without
precedent, he had chosen to be a recluse. For this self indulgence he
had to pay a price. But he consoled himself, remembering that a price
has to be paid for everything.

Chester Harding came to Bullion Flat about a year before. He had no
friends and no money. The former he could do without, he thought, but
the latter was indispensable. So he got work on the Flat, turning a
spade and plying a rocker for five dollars a day. Such work was then
better paid as a rule, but Harding, though diligent and strong, was not
used to toil, and hence was awkward and comparatively inefficient. He
improved with practice and strove doggedly on, never losing a day,
saving every penny, spending nothing for drink or good fellowship,
courting no man's smile, and indifferent to all men's frowns. He was
savagely bent on achieving independence, and in no long time, after a
fashion, he got it. Independence, in this sense, consisted in a share of
a paying claim, and in the whole of a "wall" tent. In the former he dug
and washed, morosely enough, with five or six partners; but he made up
for this enforced and distasteful social attrition by living in his tent
alone.

Harding was a man getting toward middle life, strongly built, but not
tall, with a grave, handsome face and speech studiously reserved and
cold. He seemed to fear lest he might be thought educated, and, as if to
disarm such a suspicion, his few words were apt to be abrupt and homely.
When he first came to the Flat he had two leathern trunks, and these in
due time were bestowed in the tent on the knoll. One Sunday Harding
opened them. The first contained some respectable garments, such as
might belong to the ordinary wardrobe of a gentleman. There were white
shirts among the rest, and some pairs of kid gloves. Of all these
articles Harding made a pile in the rear of his tent and then
deliberately set them on fire. "I couldn't afford it before," he
muttered. "They might have bought a meal or two if need were; but
now----" To be rich enough to gratify a caprice was clearly very
agreeable to the man; for presently he brought out a number of
books--old favorites obviously--and treated them in the same incendiary
manner. The Shakespeare and the Milton, the Macaulay and the Buckle
spluttered and crackled reproachfully in the flames; yet their destroyer
never winced, but added to the holocaust heaps of letters, and at last
two or three miniatures saved for the fire as a final tid-bit, and gazed
with grim joy as the whole crumbled in the end to powdery ashes. Chester
Harding reserved nothing but one little volume, bound in velvet with
gilt clasps, and one faded old daguerreotype, which he replaced in his
trunk side by side, and then covered quickly so that they should be out
of sight. It seemed to be his wish to hide and to forget every trace of
his past life.

That life had been a hard and bitter one. From his earliest childhood
Harding had been a victim of the weakness and cruelty of others. A
miserable home, made a hell by drink and contention, was at last broken
up in ruin, and the young man went forth into the world to meet coldness
and injustice at every turn. Suspicion and selfishness are among the
almost certain fruits of an experience like this, and the world is
naturally more ready to condemn such fruits than to find excuses for
them. When Harding found himself unpopular and distrusted he as
naturally shaped his conduct so as to justify its condemnation.
Surrounded from the beginning of his life by bad influences, and by
these almost exclusively, he found little to soften his harsh judgment
of men or to mitigate his resentment for their ill treatment. In time he
fell in with one who with greater strength and higher wisdom might
perhaps have led him up to nobler views and a loftier destiny. For he
loved her deeply and without reservation. But her charms of person found
no counterparts in her mind or heart, and Harding was cheated and
betrayed. To escape old thoughts and associations, and to mend if
possible broken fortunes, he sought the Land of Gold. He had heard that
men were more generous there than elsewhere, less cunning, tricky, and
censorious. Perhaps even he might find average acceptance among new
scenes and among a new people.

But on the day he landed at San Francisco Harding was robbed by a fellow
traveller, whom he had befriended, of the last penny he had in the
world. The man had shared his stateroom on board the steamer, and knew
that he had a draft on the agent of the Rothschilds. When Harding cashed
his draft he took the proceeds, in gold coin, to his hotel. That night
he was visited by his shipmate, who contrived to steal the belt
containing this little fortune, and to escape with it to the mines. Next
morning Harding sought a near relative, an older man of known wealth,
his sole acquaintance on the Pacific coast.

"I've come to you," he said, after receiving a somewhat icy greeting,
"to ask you to help me. A serious misfortune has overtaken me, and----"

"If it's money you want," interrupted the other brusquely, "I've got
none!"

This was not the usual fashion of the pioneers. Happily most of them
were made of sweeter and kindlier stuff. But the fates had woven out
poor Harding's earlier fortune, and it was all destined to be of the
same harsh, pitiless web. He bowed his head when these words were said
to him, and with the kind of smile angels must most hate to see on the
faces of those so near and so little below them, he went forth in
silence. Next morning he pawned his watch and made his way up into the
mines.

       *     *     *     *     *

"He's cracked; that's what he is," decided Jack Storm. Since the great
find of gold at Bullion Flat there had been a great rush thither from
the immediate neighborhood, and among the rest quite a deputation
arrived from Boone's Bar. Jack was as great a dandy as ever, and still
wore his gaudy Mexican jacket, with its silver bell buttons, his
flapping trousers to match, and his gigantic and carefully nourished
moustache.

"Cracked!" repeated Mr. Copperas suavely. "Not he. He takes too good
care of his money for that. No, boys, that ain't the trouble. He's been
'chasing the eagle' in times past; the bird has been too many for him,
and now he's playing to get even."

"Stuff!" gurgled Judge Carboy, unwilling to part by expectoration with
even the smallest product of his favorite quid. "He's done sutthin' he's
ashamed of. No trifle like that, Cop. He's proberly committed a murder
out East. Bime by we'll hear all about it."

Jack Storm shook his head. "He's worked side by side with me for nigh a
year, and he wouldn't hurt a fly. Besides, it is his turn next week to
go to 'Frisco for stores."

"What's that to do with it?" queried Mr. Copperas.

"A durned sight," returned the other. "Ain't they after these cusses
with a sharp stick who've got in hot water at home? And ain't goin' to
'Frisco for such chaps jes' like walkin' into the lion's mouth? Why,
there's honest miners--and them as ain't honest miners, Cop--who'd a
_leetle_ rather not go down to the Bay jes' now, even among the quiet
folks over at Boone's Bar."

Mr. Copperas coughed uneasily. "So Harding's going down, is he?" he
inquired. "Right off?"

"Sartain. You'd better take a trip and keep him company."

There was a murmur of amusement at this. Everybody at the "Bella Union"
knew that something had been in the air touching chirographic exploits
of Mr. Copperas a few years back at New Orleans, and before he kept the
faro bank at Boone's Bar.

"For my part," put in Jim Blair, who liked to hear injustice done to no
man, "I s'pose there's reasons why a chap might want to live alone, and
yet mightn't a knifed anybody nor robbed 'em either."

"That's so, Jim," affirmed Judge Carboy oracularly. "No doubt on't. But
when it's so we usually hear what them reasons is. Now, who knows air a
word on 'em in the case afore us? Anyhow, I hope he's good--good as
gold--only we've had our sheer of troubles in the county, and it's well
to look sharp."

"When I was a little chap," proceeded Jim Blair with retrospective
deliberation, "I lived in a village on the further side o' the Ohio.
Most folks did their business on t'other bank, and went over generally
by the eight o'clock ferry in the mornin.' Now, there was two or three
that didn't; men whose work lay nigher home, or who went later. But the
crowd went over reg'lar at eight. Arter awhile they got awful sot agin
them who didn't go over at the same time. There weren't no hell's
delights you could think of them fellers didn't lay to the men who
didn't travel by the eight boat; and at last, damn me if they didn't
want to lynch 'em!"

"Lynch 'em for not goin' in the eight boat!" cried the Judge, whose
respect for the majesty of the law always asserted itself, as was meet,
on hearing any tale of its infringement.

Jim Blair nodded. "Not so much, I reckon, for not goin' in the eight
boat as for not doin' what other folks did. However, them who ever try
to trouble Ches Harding'll have a rough time, I guess."

"You think he's sech a game fighter?" inquired Jack Storm with lively
interest.

"That may be too. But what I meant was, there's them on the Flat who
believe in Ches for all his lonesome ways, and won't see him put upon.
For my part I reckon he's more sinned against than sinnin'."

"I guess you're half right, Jim," admitted Judge Carboy with diplomatic
concession; "more'n half right. But mark my words"--and the Judge's
voice rose to the orotund swell which denoted his purpose to be more
than commonly impressive--"thar'll be the devil's own time on the Flat
some day, and that air duck'll be king pin and starter of it. I never
know'd no such silent, sulky cuss as that moonin' round but that he
kicked up pettikiler h-- in the long run."

It will be seen from this that there were differences of opinion
respecting Chester Harding at Bullion Flat, and it cannot be denied that
there was some reason for it.




CHAPTER II.

MISS TINSEL.


It was in a magnificent theatre that Chester Harding first saw her--a
theatre grand in size and tasteful in decoration. It had only lately
been opened, and was one of the lions of the Golden City. Harding went
there to while away an idle hour, and in order, perhaps, that he might
see all there was to be seen before leaving San Francisco. His visit was
one of merest chance, and no trifle had seemed lighter in all his
California life than his straying that night into the Cosmopolitan
Theatre.

And yet perhaps it was the turning-point in his existence. Others who
were there from Bullion Flat said afterward that from that night Harding
was transfigured. A blaze of chandeliers, with golden fretwork skirting
the galleries and rich dark velvet framing the boxes, could hardly
surprise him. Nor was there much to astonish--whatever there might be to
admire--in the rows of handsomely dressed women who gave brilliancy to
the audience. Neither could the drama itself, which the manager was
pleased to style "a grand legendary fairy spectacle," move Harding
seriously from his equilibrium. All these splendors, together with the
resonant orchestra, the dazzling scenery, rich in Dutch metal and gold
foil, the sanguinary and crested Baron, the villain of the play, the
iridescent youth, its hero, the demons, who went through traps, vampire
and other--one Blood-Red Demon with a long nose being especially
conspicuous--the fairies, who brought order out of chaos--of whom the
"Queen of the Fairy Bower" was the large-limbed and voluptuous
principal--the "Amazonian Phalanx," who went through unheard-of
manoeuvres with massive tin battle axes and spears--all these failed, it
must be owned, to startle Mr. Harding from his propriety. He had seen
such things, or things very like them, before. And yet he was taken off
his feet, to use the metaphor, and swept away captive by a very torrent
of emotion excited by Miss Tinsel.

She was only a _coryphée_; that is, she was but one among the minor
subordinates of the ballet. Her advent was accomplished as one of the
"Sprites of the Silver Shower." She had to come chassezing down the
stage, and she never raised her eyelids--before most demurely cast
down--until she was close upon the footlights. But when those eyelids
_did_ go up it was--well, as Judge Carboy afterward used to say, it was
just like sunrise over the mountains at Boone's Bar! A girl with a mass
of bright hair, almost red it looked by daylight, and large gray eyes
that looked as black as soot by the gas, but took on more tender hues by
day--a girl with a figure that was simply perfection, and yet one who
with all her archness seemed to have no vanity. She had many dainty
white skirts, one above another like an artichoke, of fluffy and
diaphanous texture, and although these, it cannot be denied, were
perilously short, somehow Miss Tinsel did not look in the least
immodest.

All the men from Bullion Flat knew it _was_ Miss Tinsel, since the
"Queen of the Fairy Bower" addressed this charming figure more than once
as "Zephyrind," and a reference to the play-bill thereupon at once
established her identity.

What strange magnetism there was about this girl Harding, and indeed all
who looked at her, found it hard to define. Perhaps, apart from her
lovely eyes and hair and her exquisite figure, it was because she always
seemed to be drawing away that she proved so fascinating. Even when she
advanced straight toward you she seemed for ever to retreat. By what
subtle and skilful instinct of coquetry Miss Tinsel was enabled to
convey this impression cannot here be explained. That she did convey it
was universally admitted. It appeared, however, on inquiry, that her
dramatic powers were of the slightest. Her beauty and charm were such
that the manager would gladly have put her forward could he have seen
his way to do so. But her success had been so moderate, when the
experiment was tried, in one or two of the "walking ladies" of farces,
that it was thought wisest to let her be seen as much and heard as
little as possible.

When Harding last saw her that night she was going up to Paradise on one
foot, the other pointing vaguely at nothing behind, the intoxicating
eyes turned up with a charming simulation of pious joy, and the cherry
lips curled into a smile that showed plenty of pearls below. She
vanished from his gaze in a glory of red fire, amid the blare of gongs
and trumpets, while the "Blood-Red Demon" went down to the bad place
under the stage through a trap, and the "Queen of the Fairy Bower," with
felicitous compensation, ascended to the heaven of the flies.

After this tremendous catastrophe Harding went to his hotel and
reflected.

That a Timon like himself--a misogynist indeed of the first
water--should fall in love at first sight with a ballet girl certainly
furnished matter for reflection. But reflection did not prevent Timon
from seeking an interview with his unconscious enslaver the next day.
Even cold and soured natures may become under some incentives
enthusiastic and ingenious.

Harding found out where Miss Tinsel lived, learned that she usually came
from rehearsal at about two, called consequently at three, and coolly
sent in his name, telling the servant that the young lady would know who
he was. As he hoped, the device got him admittance. The girl supposed he
was some one from the theatre whose name she had not caught or had
forgotten.

It was a very plain and humble room, almost us bare and forbidding
perhaps as the inside of Harding's tent on the knoll, and yet how
glorified was the place with the purple atmosphere of romance!

Miss Tinsel was as simply equipped as her room: a gown of dark stuff
with a bit of color at the throat, and that was all. Harding saw that
she was not quite so perfect physically as he had thought, and this,
strange as it may seem, instantly increased his passion for her. Nothing
could make her figure other than beautiful, or impair the lustre of her
eyes; but the fair creature had a little range of freckles across her
delicate nose and cheeks, and her hair by day appeared, as has been said
before, nearly red. Her natural smile, on the other hand, as
distinguished from her stage smile, which was merely intoxicating, was
almost heavenly; and it was not made less so by an occasional look that
was grave almost to sadness.

"Sit down." He was standing stock still and silent in the middle of the
room. "You come from the theatre, don't you?"

It was a sweet voice--sweet and low--too low, in truth, which was one of
the reasons of its failure in the drama--one of those thrilling
contralto voices, most magnetic and charming when heard by one alone, or
close by, but which lost their magnetism and charm if strained to fill
the ears of a crowd.

"No--yes--that is, I was there last night. I saw you there," he replies
stupidly.

"Last night? Oh, yes. But why do you want to see me to-day?"

This is a hard question to answer; so he tries evasion.

"Did you get a bouquet?"

"A perfect love--a beauty--it was thrown at my feet; but I gave it to
her of course."

"Gave it to _her_?"

"Miss De Montague--don't you know--the 'Queen of the Fairy Bower?' She
gets all the bouquets."

"Oh, she does, does she?"

"Certainly. She is the principal, you know. Her engagement calls for all
the bouquets."

"Even when they are plainly intended for somebody else?"

"Ah, but they oughtn't to be intended for somebody else. If any one is
so silly as to think somebody else ought to have a bouquet, any one has
to be punished. Then they forfeit him."

"Forfeit him?"

"Or his flowers. They always forfeit you in theatres--if you're late at
rehearsal, you know, or if you keep the stage waiting. But then you
needn't mind. Miss De Montague is a dear, good soul. She took the
bouquet for the look of the thing, you know; that's business; but she
gave me half the flowers when we got home."

"Does she live here then?"

"Why, to be sure. You know, we always go to the theatre together. Only
for her I should be quite alone."

"And do you like this kind of thing?" he asks clumsily.

She bursts into a merry laugh. "Like it? Why, I get my living by it. We
all have to live, you know, and I've no one to look out for me but
myself, and----"

She pauses suddenly, having caught his eye fixed upon her with a gaze of
passionate admiration. This first calls up the look of gravity we have
spoken of, and then brings the color sharply to her face. It also
reminds her of the somewhat peculiar character of the interview. The
instant after she resumes, as if continuing her sentence, "Did you come
here to ask me that?"

"No," he replies bluntly. "I never thought of the question until the
moment before I asked it."

"Please tell me, then," she proceeds, with gathering surprise, "what
_did_ you come for?"

He hesitates a moment, moved by the superstition or the honest feeling
that he must tell her no word of untruth, and then quietly answers:

"I am not sure that I know."

"Not sure that you know?"

"No."

"Perhaps, then, you'll go away, and when you _are_ sure----"

"Come back again?" hazards he.

"I didn't say that. You look and talk like a gentleman, and if, as I
hope, you are one, you will know that I can't see strangers--people who
have no business with me--and so you must excuse me." She has risen and
moves with some dignity toward the door.

"One moment," he interposes. "Forgive me; you know for your part that it
is impossible I should wish to offend----"

"How should I? You come here to me a stranger, and refuse to say what
for."

"No. I did not refuse. I only said I was not sure that I knew why I
came."

"Then you must be crazy!" she blurts out impulsively.

"Perhaps I am. I begin to think so."

"Then I wish you would go away!" she goes on with apprehension. "I'll
tell you what, Mr. Bellario is here, and he's--oh, terribly strong!"

"Mr. Bellario?" he echoes.

"Yes. The 'Blood-Red Demon,' you know. Didn't you see him go through the
traps?"

Harding laughs, very much amused. "And you mean to threaten me with the
'Blood-Red Demon,' do you?"

"Oh, no," she responds gently, but again edging toward the door--"not
threaten; but"--in a very conciliatory tone--"if you won't say what you
come for and won't go away----"

"But I will," he says gravely.

"Will which?"

"Will both. I will say what I came for and then I will go away."

"I don't mean to be rude, you know," she puts in, softening.

"Nor I. Now I will tell you. I came because I could not possibly stay
away--because you drew me toward you with an irresistible force----"

"I'm sure I didn't!" she protests indignantly.

"Unconsciously, of course. You may think me foolish--wild if you please.
I can't help that. You will know better in time. I come to you saying
not a wrong word, thinking not a wrong thought. There is nothing against
me. At home I was a gentleman. I ask leave to visit you, respectfully as
a friend, nothing more."

"But why?" she asks, bewildered.

"Because I admire you greatly, inexpressibly, and I must tell you so."
She turns scarlet now. "But I shall never tell you this--not again--or
anything else in words you do not choose to hear. All I ask is the leave
now and then to see and to speak with you."

This was very embarrassing. Had he said he loved her, and at first
sight, she would have turned him away. She would have distrusted both
his sincerity and his motives. But he did not say this. On the contrary,
he offered in explicit terms, it would seem, not to say it. She
therefore naturally took refuge in generalities.

"But what you ask won't be possible. What would people say? This is a
very bad, a scandalous country, I mean. What would Miss De Montague
think, or Mr. Bellario?"

"What people will say or think hardly needs to be considered," said
Harding steadily, "since in a week I shall have gone to my home in the
mines. You won't be troubled with me long--twice more perhaps. Only once
if you prefer it. All shall be exactly as you wish it. Is not that
fair?"

Miss Tinsel was saved the present necessity for replying to a question
or coping with a situation both of which she found extremely perplexing,
since at this juncture the door opened and admitted the "Queen of the
Fairy Bower" and the "Blood-Red Demon," who had apparently been out for
a morning walk. To Harding's surprise, the "Queen" was a motherly
looking woman of forty-five and the "Demon" a weak-eyed young man, with
a pasty white face, and some fifteen years younger. Both were much
overdressed, and both stared vigorously at Harding--the "Queen" with an
air intended to represent fashionable raillery, the "Demon" with haughty
surprise. But the visitor avoided explanations that might have been
embarrassing by bowing low to the company and passing from the room.




CHAPTER III.

THE CUP AND THE LIP.


Her real name was Jane Green. But Jane Green would never do for the
play-bill; so the manager, exercising his peculiar and traditional
prerogative, had rechristened the young lady for the histrionic world,
and she appeared as "Aurora Tinsel." A poor, almost friendless girl, she
had left the Atlantic States with an aunt who had been the wife of the
"property man" in the theatre. Soon after the aunt died, and Jane had
gladly accepted the offer of Miss De Montague to live with her, and, by
helping that lady with her dresses, to render an equivalent for her
society and protection.

Harding was a wise man in his generation, foolish as in some respects he
may appear. We offer no explanation of his swift and unreasoning
infatuation, because it is just such men who do just such rash and
impulsive things. But he was sagacious enough to know that a man who
really wants a woman is less likely to get her by being too quick than
even by being too slow. Women who are interested always maintain the
contrary; but this is because they want to bag their game instantly,
whether they mean to throw it away afterward or not. The sex are not
apt, however, to err by over-rating the value of what they get too
easily, and this Harding was philosopher enough to know.

Hence, while he again sought Miss Tinsel twice before his departure, and
while his admiration, although respectful, was not concealed, he did not
go so far as to ask the girl to become his wife. It appeared that after
the run of the current spectacle at the theatre a "great tragedian" was
to play an engagement there, and the opportunity was to be taken for the
ballet and pantomime troupe to make a tour of the mines. Miss De
Montague was to go as a chief attraction, and Miss Tinsel was to go
also, and among the places they were to visit was Bullion Flat.

These plans left open a space of three months, during which Harding
could think of what he was at, and Miss Tinsel could think of what he
meant, and several other persons who were interested could make up their
minds what to do.

The first step taken by Harding on his return was highly confirmatory,
in the judgment of the Flat, of the opinion expressed by Jack Storm some
time before. A contract was made with a builder, and close by the tent
on the knoll there speedily arose a cottage of fair proportions, which
was evidently meant to supersede the humbler structure which for a year
had formed Harding's home. No one doubted his ability prudently to incur
such an outlay. He had been saving to parsimony, and he had been
prosperous. But why, when a tent had so long sufficed to him, and when
he so disliked to part with money, he should go to so needless an
expense, was so obscure that to accept Jack Storm's solution impugning
Harding's sanity was the easiest and consequently the most popular way
of solving the enigma.

The cottage was built notwithstanding, and it was soon the subject of
general remark that Harding was becoming more genial and "sociable" than
before. He astonished Judge Carboy and Jim Blair by asking them to drink
one night at the "Bella Union." He smiled affably and passed the time of
day with Jack Storm and his other companions when they met to begin work
on the claim for the day. He ordered champagne for the crowd on the
evening when a green tree was lashed to the rooftree of his cottage on
the knoll; and at last he raised wonder and surprise to their perihelion
by actually giving a housewarming.

"I know'd it all along," affirmed Judge Carboy that night to his
familiars. They were taking a cocktail at the "Bella Union" by way of
preface to "bucking" against Mr. Copperas's bank--"I know'd it all
along. He's got a wife out East, and she's a comin' out to jine him in
the new house."

"Is that the 'suthin' you talked of that he was ashamed of, Judge?"
laughed Jim Blair. "It looks like it, for sartin he never said nothin'
about her."

"A man may git married," retorted the Judge with judicial acumen, "and
yit do suthin' else to be ashamed of, mayn't he? There's been murderers
and horse thieves stretched afore now who had wives, hain't there? And
the last chap the boys hung to a flume up to Redwood, he had three
wives, didn't he? And they all come to the funeral." And with this
triumphant vindication of his position the Judge sternly deposited half
a paper of fine-cut in his mouth and started for the luxurious apartment
of Mr. Copperas.

Next morning Bullion Flat was in a flurry of excitement and pleasurable
anticipation. The "Grand Cosmopolitan Burlesque, Ballet, and Spectacle
Troupe" had arrived, and were to play in the theatre attached to the
"Bella Union." It was not, however, until the succeeding afternoon that
Chester Harding called upon Miss Tinsel at the same hotel.

It was a good sign that that young lady crimsoned at the first sight of
him; what she first said was another:

"You have not been in a hurry," she pouted, "to come and see me."

"I supposed you would be very busy," said he smiling, and devouring her
with his eyes. "Were you so anxious to have me come?"

"Anxious?" she repeated; and then added, illogically, "I supposed you
would please yourself."

He nodded. "And how do you like Bullion Flat?"

"I think it ever so pretty--only I don't like the earth all torn up, and
such ugly holes and scars."

"We have to get at the gold, you know," he explained, "even at such a
cost. But the hilltops, anyhow, are spared."

She looked through a window and pointed at the most picturesque eminence
in the neighborhood--the knoll. "That is your house?" she observed
shyly.

"Yes. Do you like it?"

"I think it lovely--situation and all."

"And how did you know it was mine?"

"Oh," she said, laughing, "we show-folks see a great many
people--besides being seen by them--and I've heard a lot about you."

Harding's face darkened a little. "Then you've heard that I'm not much
liked?"

"I've heard that some say so. But what of that? Miss De Montague says
she wouldn't give a fig for a man everybody speaks well of--and she
quoted something from a comedy--the 'School for Scandal.'"

"Will you tell me what people say?" he inquired curiously.

"Oh, that you are gloomy, reserved, and live all alone, and that you
are--are not extravagant, and that you haven't had a very happy life."

"That last at least, if true, is a misfortune rather than a fault."

"It's all misfortune, ain't it?" said the girl sagely. "People don't
make themselves. There's Mr. Bellario now. He thinks nature really meant
him for a great warrior--somebody like Napoleon, you know. And instead
of that he's--well, he calls himself a professional gentleman, but the
boys call him a tumbler. I suppose it would be much grander to kill
people than to jump through 'vampire traps'; but you see he didn't get
his choice--any more than I did."

"Then you didn't want to go on the stage?"

"No, indeed. It was just for bread. Aunty was a 'second old woman'--and
they got me in for 'utility,' as they call it. There was no one to care
for me, and I was glad to earn an honest living; but like it! Never!"

"You say there was no one to care for you?" said Harding gently. "Had
you no friends--no parents?"

Jane reddened painfully, and the sad look came quickly into her face.
"My mother is dead, you see," she replied, with hesitancy,
"and--and--I'd rather not speak of this any more, please."

"Surely," he exclaimed hastily, "I've no right to catechize you. Pray
forgive my asking at all. I ought to have been more careful. I know what
trouble is, and how to feel for those who suffer."

She looked at him earnestly. "You have suffered yourself, then--they
were right when they said yours had not been a happy life?"

"I have no right to whine--but happy--no, far from it."

Jane's lovely face took on its softest and tenderest expression.

"They said that lately you have been happier--gayer than ever
before--and that people liked you--oh, ever so much better than they
used to. Why is it that people like those the best who seem to need help
and sympathy the least?"

Jane leaned from the window as she spoke and toyed with some running
vine that clambered to the casement. The grace and beauty of her figure
were made conspicuous by the movement, and Harding paused a moment
before he replied:

"People like to be cheerful, I suppose, and people like others to be
like themselves, I know. It is true that I have been unhappy--that my
life has been morose and solitary. How much this has been my own fault
and how much that of others, need not be said. But it is also true that
of late I have been far happier. Shall I tell you why?"

His voice was deep and earnest, and something in his eyes made the girl
crimson again, and turn her own to the distant hills.

"If you please," she faltered, in her low, musical contralto.

"Shall I tell you too why I have built that cottage you are looking at?"
he went on with increasing earnestness. "It is because it has been my
hope, my prayer, that this sad, lonely life of mine was nearly over. It
is because I have believed that after much pain, and doubt, and
bitterness my trust in men might be brought back through my love for a
woman. The cottage--it is for you, Jane. I love you, Jane. Do you hear
me? From the moment I saw you, I loved you. I resolved to ask you to
marry me. Jane, will you do so?"

While he spoke the color had been fading steadily from her face, and
when he stopped the girl was ashy pale. He looked at her anxiously and
impatiently.

"I--I--am--so sorry," she muttered at last, as if each word were a
separate pain.

"Sorry? God! Why?" Then with swift suspicion, "Jane, do you care
for--are you engaged to some one?"

She shook her head mournfully.

"Do you see that sun going down over the hills?" She turned her
beautiful eyes full upon Harding as she spoke, with a look of ineffable
tenderness and sorrow. "Well, you must let what you have said go down
with that sun, and never think of it--never speak of it again."

It was Harding's turn to blanch now, and the blood retreated from his
swarthy cheeks until they looked almost ghastly.

"Why?" and his voice came involuntarily, almost in a whisper.

"Do not ask me--have pity--do not ask me."

"I must ask you," he cried impetuously, "but yet I need not perhaps. You
care for no one else? Then it must be that you do not, you cannot, care
for me. Is that it, Jane?"

"That is not it."

"Not it!" he cried joyfully. "Then you _do_ care for me a little--just a
little, Jane?--a little which is to grow into a great deal by and by!
Oh, child, child, think how wretched I have been all these years! Think
how I have waited and waited. I lived for twelve long months, Jane,
alone, without a soul, without even a dog, in a tent on that knoll; and
so hungry, Jane--so hungry for sympathy, for love. It comes to me at
last, dear Jane, what I have longed for and begged for so long. Don't,
don't--as you hope for mercy, don't take it away again!"

"You are good," she said softly, "whatever they may say. It is good and
noble of you. Why should I tell you lies? I do like you very much, for
all," looking down with a faint blush, "we have met and known each other
so little. But all the same, it cannot be."

"Cannot again," he cried impatiently. "Once more, I ask you, will you
tell me why not?"

She looked at him half frightened, for there was something of mastery in
his tone; then, standing erect, and with a positiveness as strong as his
own, she answered, "Because I should disgrace you."

"Because you are on the stage!" he exclaimed disdainfully. "Is that it?"

"That is something," returned Jane humbly, "but perhaps not much. I am
hardly important enough to be worth even that sort of reproach. And
besides the people of California are too liberal to apply it. I know I
am only a ballet dancer"--and the poor girl tried to smile here--"and a
pretty bad one at that. But I work hard for an honest living, and no one
can say I have ever disgraced myself."

"Then how can you disgrace me?"

"I have begged you not to ask me."

"I must!" cried Harding passionately; "and I have the right to do so.
Would you have me take your cool 'no' when you care for no one else and
do care for me, and to go my way satisfied? I can't--I won't!"

"You will be sorry," said Jane pitifully.

"Let me be. Anything rather than the doubt. Give me the truth."

"Well then." She turned her back now: and looked from the window with
her grave, sad face, and spoke in a dull, measured way, like the
swinging of a pendulum. "I am a convict's daughter. My father is in the
State prison of New York at Auburn."

"For what crime?"

"Murder. It was in the first degree. The Governor commuted it to
imprisonment for life. There were extenuating circumstances. I went down
on my knees and prayed that he might be saved from the gallows."

"And his victim?"

"Was his wife--my mother."




CHAPTER IV.

A MYSTERY AND A PARTING.


The troupe of which Miss De Montague and Mr. Bellario were prime spirits
made a profound impression at Bullion Flat; so profound, in truth, that
before their three nights were over a fresh engagement was made for
their return a fortnight later. It was agreed that at that time, and on
their return from other points, they should appear for an additional
three nights, and thus afford their admirers opportunities for which the
first essay had been insufficient. This arrangement was highly agreeable
to Miss De Montague and Mr. Bellario for reasons largely connected,
respectively, with the excellent cuisine and bar of the Bella Union.
"Why, my dear," observed the lady, "when I fust come up to do the
'legitimate,' fifteen months ago, love nor money could buy a morsel of
supper after the play. We had to do with a pot of ginger, and dig it out
with the Macbeth daggers, and wash it down with bad beer."

The arrangement was also satisfactory to Miss Tinsel. It seemed well to
her that she should be absent for a time; and yet she could not deny a
feeling of joy over the thought of returning. Her lover had been greatly
shocked by the dismal tale she had recited; but, to the credit of his
manliness, he had refused to accept the facts as conclusive arguments
against his suit. "Was it her fault," argued he, "that her father was a
scoundrel?" Why should stigma or disability of any sort attach to her
for that which she had no hand in, and had been powerless to prevent? On
the contrary, should not the world, or any part of it that might come in
contact with her, treat a helpless and innocent girl with even greater
tenderness and commiseration because of the undeserved and terrible
misfortune that had befallen her?

Jane had resolved that she ought not to be moved by such arguments, and
yet she could not help liking to hear them. It was in the end agreed
between them--by Harding's earnest entreaties--that she should think the
matter over, and that her final decision should be withheld until the
return of the troupe to perform its second engagement. Jane had talked
with Miss De Montague, who, in spite of some foibles, was a kind-hearted
and right-minded woman, and Miss De Montague had strongly urged that
Jane's sensitiveness was overstrained. If Mr. Harding had been told all
the truth without reserve and he still wished to make Jane his wife, and
Jane wished to marry him, that was enough. To stand about and moon over
it, and wonder or care what people would say, was all fiddle-faddle, and
all sensible people would call it so. Besides, California was different
from other places. It was the custom there to give everybody a chance,
and value them for what they did and what they were _now_--and not for
what other people, or even they themselves, had done before. It is right
to admit that the amiable lady's passion for Mr. Bellario--whose similar
feeling for Miss Tinsel was more than suspected--had something to do
with inspiring all these sage suggestions; but the suggestions were not
deprived of good sense by that.

During the fortnight that passed between Jane's departure and her return
the cottage that Harding designed for her future home fast approached
completion. Meanwhile its owner's claim was doing better, and his
coffers were consequently fuller than ever before. He resolved that,
come what might, Jane should become his wife; and it was in this frame
of mind that Harding walked out by the riverside on the night the troupe
returned. As before, he resolved not to hurry in his suit, and therefore
determined to omit calling until the following day.

The night was clear, the stars shining brightly, and the stream ran
gurgling forward with a pleasant sound. Suddenly, as Harding strolled
musing along the bank, some one touched him on the shoulder from behind;
and turning, he beheld the "Blood-Red Demon," Mr. Bellario. That
gentleman wore a long cloak, tossed across his breast and left shoulder,
and a slouched sombrero; and his white, pasty face wore a look of
inscrutable mystery.

"Hist!" he enjoined in a stage whisper; "all is discovered!" Then he
drew back, with finger on lip, as if to watch the effect of his
revelation.

"What's the matter?" said Harding. "What do you mean?"

"Mean! Ha! ha!" and the "Demon" laughed witheringly. "He asks me what I
mean! Mark me," proceeded he, with a sudden transition, "I know your
secret!"

"Oh, you do, do you? Which one do you mean?" questioned Harding
scornfully.

"I have neither time nor heart to trifle," said the "Demon," waving his
arm with an air of ineffable majesty. "I shall be brief and to the
point."

"You'll very much oblige me."

"Enough. What prompts me to this midnight deed, 'twere bootless now to
ask, and idle to reveal. Therefore to my tale. You are in love with
Aurora--with Miss Tinsel?"

"By what right----"

"Spare your reproaches. I am in love with her too!"

"You?"

"Is that so strange? Long ere you crossed our path I knew and loved
her. But this is neither here nor there."

"I should think not."

"Professionally," continued the "Demon," with great dignity, "she is, of
course, my inferior. Socially--well, you know, I think the damning
family secret----"

"Whatever that may be, it is no sin of hers. I think you may wisely
leave it a secret--so far, that is, as to omit crying it on the
housetops."

"Save to yourself and Miss De Montague, no hint of the tragedy has
passed my lips. But to the business between us----"

"My good sir," said Harding, with irritation, "I know of none, so far.
If you have anything to say to me, I'll listen. If not, I'll pass on."

"Ha! ha! ha!" laughed the "Demon" with bitter mockery. "I come to serve
ye, and ye would spurn me from yer path! Poor, poor humanity! Why, why
should I laugh when I should rather weep?"

"I don't know, I'm sure," answered Harding simply, "and I don't want to
be uncivil. But it certainly isn't asking too much to want to know what
you mean."

"No," responded the "Demon," with melodious sadness--"not too much.
Though every word be torture, yet I will e'en go through the ordeal.
Sir, what I have to say--and it cuts me to the heart to say it--is that
this lady--this young girl--this Aurora Tinsel--is worthy of neither of
us."

"What!"

"She is unworthy--lost--and capable of the worst deception!"

"That's false!"

"How, sir?"

"That's false. And you or any one else who says it is a liar!"

The "Demon" drew suddenly back, clapped his hand to an imaginary sword
hung at his left side--and then thought better of it.

"Pshaw!" he exclaimed lightly, but keeping at a wary distance from
Harding's reach. "Why should I yield to rage? My prowess is well
known--and, after all, this worthy gentleman speaks in ignorance. Sir,"
he added, changing his tone with elaborate and chivalrous grace, "I
speak of what I know, and speak only with the best of motives. But it is
due to you that I offer to make good my words. I can absolutely prove
that what I have said is true."

"Prove it, how?"

"By enabling you to witness for yourself that which justifies what I
say."

"And you can do this?"

"Almost to a certainty, and probably this very night."

Harding hesitated. To take the course proposed seemed like doubt, and
doubt was unworthy. To refuse to take that course might subject Jane to
calumny, which he might on the other hand nip in the bud. Presently he
spoke:

"What do you propose?"

"That you go with me at once, and judge for yourself. We may fail
tonight, but if so, our success to-morrow will be all but certainty."

The man's air of conviction was impressive, and Harding, fearful, yet
hoping that he might unearth some strange mistake or deception, agreed
to the plan proposed. It was settled that the two should meet an hour
later at the "Bella Union," and they parted now with that understanding.
Bellario, however, took occasion before leaving his companion to make
his insinuations so far specific as to tell him that Miss Tinsel had
made the acquaintance of a certain handsome, dark-eyed man, who had
followed the troupe ever since it had last been at Bullion Flat; that
this man evidently admired the girl very much, and that she had
encouraged his advances in the most unmistakable manner; that she had
gone so far as to receive her admirer at her room in the hotel, and that
at so late an hour as to excite the censure of the not over-prudish Miss
De Montague; and that, in fine, Miss Tinsel's hitherto spotless name had
been so tarnished by the events of the last fortnight as to make it
certain none would ever again think her the pure girl she had always
hitherto been held to be.

With the blood tingling through every vein, with nerves at extreme
tension, and a heart full of bitterness, Chester Harding passed away.
Something told him that the tale, black and dismal as it was, was
likewise true. When Jane told him the story of her father's crime and
its punishment, Harding felt as if there had fallen between him and his
prospect of happiness a veil that made it look doubtful and unreal. The
girl's firmness in telling him the truth, and the assertion of her
opinion as to the proper bearing and consequence of that truth on her
relations with Harding, had assuredly deeply impressed and comforted
him. It was something to face, after all, and even in California, this
wedding the child of a murderer and felon. Yet her own perfect goodness
was the justification and would be the reward of such an act. But when
Jane's goodness itself was in question it was no wonder that Harding's
heart sank within him. He was no coward, but his experience had taught
him distrust; and he waited for the stipulated hour to pass in an agony
of doubt and pain.

The "Bella Union" had two long wings, perhaps thirty feet apart, running
at right angles with its façade toward the rear. In the second story of
one wing there were sleeping rooms. Both stories of the opposite wing
were occupied by the theatre. The latter was quite dark, and hither
Bellario conducted Harding after they had met in the saloon below.

"Be silent," whispered the "Demon," when they met--"be silent and
follow."

Up two winding staircases, then through a long passage, and they stood
in a gallery over the stage and directly facing the other wing.

"Look!" said the "Demon"; "he's there now!" He still whispered, for the
night was hot and windows were everywhere open. Through one of these
directly opposite Harding distinctly saw Miss Tinsel. She was talking
earnestly with some one not in sight. Harding gazed breathlessly and
listened. Presently a second figure came between the window and the
light within. It was that of a tall, handsome man with dark eyes. He
replied to the girl with earnestness equal to her own, but in tones as
carefully suppressed. As the eyes of the observers got used to the
situation, they descried a bed on the further side of the room. On this
Miss Tinsel, after a time, sat down. The man followed and seated himself
by her side. A moment or two more, and he took both her hands and
clasped them in his own. They still talked, obviously with deep feeling,
and at last Miss Tinsel threw her arms around her companion's neck and
kissed him.

"Enough," hoarsely exclaimed Harding. "Enough--and more than enough!"

"You'll wait no longer?" asked the other.

"Not an instant. Can't you conceive, man--you who profess yourself to
have cared for her--what a hell this is?"

"I've been through it before," muttered the "Demon," "and the wound
isn't quite so fresh."

They descended in silence to the saloon, and there Harding spoke more
freely:

"See here--you've saved me from a great peril--and although I think I
had rather you had shot me outright, you deserve no less gratitude. If
you want help--money--for instance----"

The "Demon" waved his hand in lofty refusal.

"As Claude Melnotte says, sir, I gave you revenge--I did not sell it.
There are better men than I in the world, and lots of them. But I try to
do as I would be done by--at least in a scrape like this. I wish you
good night, and I hope you'll take comfort. After a little it'll seem
easier to you. Certainly the ill news should come easier even now than
it would afterward. As Othello says, ''Tis better as it is.'"

He bowed and passed away. Ascending to the apartment of Miss De
Montague, he made himself so agreeable as to be able to borrow from that
lady a dozen shining eagles; and, thus provided, descended promptly to
Mr. Copperas's bank, where he whiled away the night--assisted by copious
drinks and unlimited cigars--at the enlivening game of faro.

As for Harding, he went to the bar of the saloon and took what was for
him a stiff glass of brandy. Then he turned abruptly on his heel, and
without sending his name before him, marched straight up to Miss
Tinsel's room.

She met him at the door with a glad cry--and then shrank back abashed.

"I see," she murmured, in her low, sweet voice, "you don't care to have
me repulse you again. You have thought it over--and you agree that it is
better not."

He came just inside the door, but did not sit, although she motioned him
to a chair.

"I agree," he repeated mechanically--"I agree--with you that it is
better not." Then he looked suspiciously around the room. There was no
one there--but a door opened into another room beyond. Jane followed his
eyes. "That is Miss De Montague's room," she said; "we are always next
to each other."

"And she is there now?"

"Yes--with Mr. Bellario--he is calling on her."

Harding paused a minute, and then went on in a hard, constrained voice,
like one who repeats a disagreeable lesson.

"I have thought it right to see you--now, for the last time--and say I
think it best--and right--that we should part."

Jane turned very pale, and the old grave look of hopeless pain came over
her face. But she answered with infinite softness and humility:

"It is right--you know I thought so from the first. You should not marry
a--a convict's daughter."

"It is not because you are a convict's daughter."

"The reason is sufficient."

"I repel it," he cried vehemently--"I will have none of it--I told you
so before--I repeat it now. Listen," and he crossed the room swiftly and
closed both doors.

"I loved you for yourself--dearly--dearly. What did it matter to
me--what fault was it of yours--what other people did, or what or where
they were? In this grand, new country, men--some men, at least--have
grown high enough and strong enough to shake off such paltry prejudices
as those. To me they are as nothing."

"You led me to think so," Jane said gently.

"Why should I care for your being a ballet-dancer--or for the other
thing, when you had never disgraced yourself? But now it is different."

"Now it is different!" she echoed in amazement.

"Different in this," pursued he with growing excitement, "that before
you were a pure girl--pure as snow--everybody said that--and now you
are--are--compromised."

The blood rushed in a torrent up to her hair.

"Who says it?" she demanded, now first showing warmth--"who dares say
it?"

"Alas, Jane," he replied, "don't make things worse by deception at
parting. Let us be at least as we have always been, honest and
unreserved to each other."

"What you have said just now," said the girl' proudly, "is an insult.
The time has been when you would not have heard another say such
words--either to me or of me; and yet they are as little deserved now as
they have ever been."

"They are, are they?" he retorted. "Then pray tell me who was that man
you have had here within an hour?"

She turned deadly white, and opened her lips thrice to speak before the
words would shape themselves.

"That--man?"

"Do you deny having a man with you?"

She shook her head piteously. "No--there was a man here--and with me."

"Ah, you confess it then," cried he, as if her admission made what he
knew more heinous. "Who was this man? Confess all!"

"He--he--wanted help--asked for money. He saw me in the play at Boone's
Bar--and thinking me richer than I am, asked me for money."

Harding laughed scornfully. "And do you expect me to believe this?"

"It is true," she hurried on nervously. "He said he was desperate and
must have money to get away."

"Had he any claim upon you?" he asked, scanning her with cold, searching
eyes.

She hesitated and made answer, "No--none."

"Yet he pushed his demand with eloquence?"

"He did."

"And with success?"

"I gave him all I had."

"Even although he had no claim on you?"

"Yes."

"Oh, Jane--Jane!" he cried with a burst of bitter sorrow; "why couldn't
you have been truthful to the end? Why--why must you make me look
back--always and only to despise you!"

She looked at him stonily, but made no reply.

"Jane, it cuts me to the heart to say it--but I saw you--do you
hear?--saw you. He took both your hands in his--you threw your arms
about his neck and kissed him. Do you deny this?"

She still looked him straight in the face, but two tears brimmed into
her eyes and rolled slowly down her cheeks. "No, it is true," she then
answered.

"You own this too," he cried furiously. "Jane, who is this man?"

She remained silent.

"I ask you again, Jane--and for the last time--who is this man?"

"I cannot tell you."

"You refuse?"

"I must."

"Then farewell. We can meet no more." He turned, and stood with his hand
on the door, and with the action the girl's overstrained nerves gave
way.

"Oh, no, no, no! Oh, Chester, I have loved you so! Don't--for mercy's
sake--don't leave me in anger--when I so need comfort--help--and--p--pity!"

She fell on her knees by the bed, and with her face in her hands, sobbed
aloud.

As she did so, a burst of strange, mocking laughter resounded from the
adjoining room, and Harding started as if he had been stung.

"It must be!" he hissed, all that was hardest and worst in his nature
suddenly possessing him. "After this it would only be torture--to both!"
He bent suddenly and kissed--not her lips, no longer pure--but her
forehead, once, twice, thrice, passionately, and then fled away into the
darkness.




CHAPTER V.

GOOD OUT OF EVIL.


Harding went up to his lonely tent. Like a wounded animal, he sought his
lair, and the memory of the many solitary hours he had passed there,
even at this sad moment, refreshed his spirit. There he could be
alone--away from men's eyes--free from their curiosity, from their
comments, or, what would be worse, from their pity.

He had made himself comparatively rich; he had built up a home, as it
were, in the wilderness; he had even tried, and with some success, to
gain men's esteem--and what were all these worth to him now?

Such bitter thoughts as these filled Harding's mind as he arranged his
coarse pallet, and then, throwing himself upon it, sought to forget his
grief during the short space that remained before daylight. He was
awakened, almost instantly, it seemed to him--although, in fact, three
hours had passed--by the sharp crack of a rifle. Harding leaped up and
ran to his door.

It was a dull, gray dawn--the sky overcast, but the air free from wind
or rain. A little below Harding's tent there spread a plain about a mile
wide. This extended along the bank of the river, and terminated in a
clump of redwoods which grew far up the mountain beyond. Here and there
on the plain were scattered a few small trees and copses of manzanita;
but for the most part it was clear from the outskirts of the village up
to the redwoods.

On this plain Harding now saw a remarkable sight. A man was running from
tree to tree, striving always to get nearer the mountain. Perhaps three
hundred yards behind him were five or six armed pursuers trying to close
in on the fugitive, and occasionally firing at him. As Harding gazed,
three shots were discharged in rapid succession. Yet the man still held
on his way, apparently unhurt, and it looked as if he would quickly gain
the cover of the forest. But there was one behind him far swifter than
the rest, who ran like an Indian on the river or further side from
Harding, and who threatened in a few moments to get dangerously near. It
was because this man was so distant from himself that Harding did not at
first recognize his own partner, Jack Storm, although he was in his
usual well known Mexican dress. Now, Storm was the best rifle shot on
Bullion Flat.

It appeared that the fugitive knew this. At all events, as if suddenly
realizing his peril, he turned and ran straight toward Storm, resolved
to draw his fire, apparently, and by confusing his aim to have a better
chance of escape. Storm's ready rifle flew up to his shoulder instantly,
and Harding saw the pale blue ring of smoke and heard the quick report.
Still the fugitive sped on. He was plainly unscathed, or in any case not
disabled; and in his hand there now flashed a bright something which
Harding knew was a bowie-knife. With that, although the combatants were
a mile away, Harding seized a revolver, and dashed at his highest speed
down the hill. Almost at the same moment, there also started in company
from Bullion Flat three figures on horseback. These were Miss Tinsel,
the "Demon," Mr. Bellario, and Judge Carboy. All who were now making for
the scene of the combat heard in sharp repetition five or six shots from
revolvers; but after the last of these, all was still. When they got to
the spot they found Jack Storm fainting from loss of blood, but hurt
only with flesh wounds; and they were told that the other man, his
opponent, was mortally wounded, and had been taken, by his own request,
up on the mountain side, among the redwoods, to die.

With a choking cry, Miss Tinsel galloped on, and in a few moments
Chester Harding and she were again face to face over the dying man's
body. Ghastly white as he was, all dabbled with blood, and the foam
oozing from his lips, her lover at once knew Jane's visitor of the night
before. What had happened had been hurriedly revealed to Harding--in
broken whispers by the bystanders--before Jane came up.

The man had robbed several rooms at the "Bella Union" during the night,
and had succeeded in gathering a large sum. Among the treasures stolen
were all the loose funds belonging to the "Combination Troupe," the
night's winnings of Mr. Copperas's faro bank, and Miss De Montague's
diamonds. But just as the robber, toward daylight, was on the point of
making off in safety, he met a lion in the path in Jack Storm. It
happened that Jack wanted to have a talk with his partner, Harding, and,
as they were then very busy on the claim, made up his mind to compass
this purpose bright and early, before getting to work. Stumbling on the
marauder, the latter was secured after a struggle, and "the boys"
speedily determined to make an example of him. The man begged for a
chance of life, and after some debate, had been given the option of the
halter or running the gauntlet, with three hundred yards' start, in the
way we have described. In the subsequent struggle he had been shot
through the lungs, and terribly cut with his own bowie-knife--wrested
from him by Jack Storm--and his life was now fast ebbing away.

As she came up Jane sprang from her horse, and threw herself on the
ground beside the dying man. They had propped his head on a hillock of
turf, and some charitable soul had brought water from the river. Judge
Carboy quickly put a flask of brandy to the sufferer's lips, and he
opened his eyes:

"Ja--Jane," he gasped, "my pretty Jane--this is the end--the end of
it--a dog's death--and deserved, too-but--I--I--always loved you!"

She burst into tears and began sobbing over him and fondling his head.

"Don't, darling--don't, little Jenny--it won't be long--I am better
away--better for you--there--there! I'm sliding away somewhere--and----"

His voice failed, and his dark face began to grow blue. The doctor, who
had ridden hastily up, forced between the man's teeth some strong
restorative.

"I want you to remember--always--that I was drunk when I did it--drunk
and crazy. I was bad--vile--but not so bad as that. Don't tell who--who
I am. It will only disgrace you--only disgrace you--I'm going, little
Jenny----"

"Oh, _father_! _father!_" and the poor child bowed down her pretty head
on the breast of the wretched thief and murderer, and wept as if her
heart would break.

"No--no," he muttered; "no, little Jenny, I'm not worth it. Only--don't
think worse--worse of me than I deserve. Perhaps mother--in heaven--has
forgiven me! She knows--knows--I was mad when I did it."

"Yes--yes--I shall remember," whispered she, "always. Now don't talk
more--not now."

"No--I shan't talk--much more"--a strange wan smile came over his
face--"not much more, little Jenny." He put up his hand and stroked her
sunny hair.

"Tell them about this last--that I was desperate--I had broke jail--knew
the officers were on my track--and was penniless. Give me--more--brandy.
So. Why, I can't see you any more, little Jenny--and yet it is morning,
isn't it, not night!" He gasped for breath and clutched feebly at the
air. "Kiss me--little Jenny--mer--mercy--_Lord Jesus_--better--better
times--hereafter!"

A shudder, and the man was dead, and Jane was left all alone in the
world. Poor, besotted, frantic Michael Green, all sin-scorched as he
was, had passed from the judgment of men to the more merciful judgment
beyond. Yet the orphan, if alone, lacked neither sympathy nor
protection. Nor did she ever lack from that moment the respect and
confidence of the man of whose heart she had from the first been
mistress. So that the true happiness came in time which is so often the
sweeter for being deferred.

                   HENRY SEDLEY.




DEFEATED.


  Give me your hand--nay, both, as I confront you.
  Let me look in your eyes, as once before.
  I gaze, and gaze. Oh, how they change and soften!
  I stand within the portal: lo! a door--

  A door close shut and barred. I knock and listen.
  No sound, no answer. Doubtingly I wait.
  Oh! for one glance beyond that guarded entrance,
  The power that mystic realm to penetrate.

  I touch the barrier with hands entreating,
  If it would yield to me, and none beside.
  What bitter pain, what sense of loss and failure,
  To come so near, and come to be denied!

  Softly I call, but only silence answers--
  Silence, and the quick throbbing of my heart.
  Immovable, the frowning bar abideth:
  Kneeling, I kiss the threshold and depart.

                   MARY L. RITTER.




SHALL PUNISHMENT PUNISH?


It is published that in England a man has been undergoing an aggregate
imprisonment of ten years for breaking a shop window, at different
times, and that when recently pardoned he immediately broke the same
window again for the purpose of being again arrested. One who knows
nothing more than this of the facts cannot presume to determine what
punishment should in justice be given to this particular offender; but
the case is interesting as an extreme example of what frequently occurs
in a less striking degree in this country. Police courts become
acquainted with a class of criminals who would rather go to jail for
their dinner, especially in winter, than earn a dinner by hard work.
They are the confirmed vagabonds from whom the army of summer tramps is
chiefly recruited. They never feel truly virtuous and happy in cold
weather except when they have committed a petty offence and are on the
way to "punishment," which consists in accepting from a thoughtful
public a warm shelter and all the food they want. It is their business
to live, at times if not constantly, in this way. Sending them to jail
for their offences is known by the courts that send them to be nothing
but a sorry farce.

There is another equally incorrigible class, who commit greater crimes,
but not chiefly for the sake of "punishment." Detectives keep themselves
advised of the sentences of these offenders, and prepare to shadow them
anew whenever they are released from confinement. It is not expected
that incarceration will have any reformatory effect. The question of
reforming them, as of reforming those who offend to get rid of the
trouble of taking care of themselves, comes to be left out of
consideration, after a little experience, by the officers whose duty it
is to deal with them. Only intimidation remains for a considerable
number. With these, rather than with the English window-breaker, should
probably be classed the subject of this item from a late newspaper:
"Charles Dickens is dead, and died of honest work; but the German
prisoner, Charles Langheimer, whom he saw in the penitentiary at
Philadelphia thirty-three years ago, and over whose punishment by
solitary confinement he lamented in 'American Notes,' describing him as
'a picture of forlorn affliction and distress of mind,' still lives at
the age of seventy-five, and has just been sent back to his old quarters
the sixth time, for his chronic offence of petty theft, which has kept
him in jail full half his long life."

That punishment for crime is necessary, and therefore a public duty, is
admitted, and every community professes to impose it. But what of the
criminals whom punishment as now administered does not punish--who
actually commit crimes for the purpose of receiving it? It would seem
that society has not the power or has not the wisdom to protect itself.
It has the right, of course. It has the power also.

The law does not succeed in what it attempts and professes to do. At
present when we find a criminal who has sufficient good in him to feel
our methods, we punish him in proportion to his--goodness. When we find
one so vile that our methods are like water on a duck's back, we do not
punish him--except as water punishes a duck. He goes unpunished because
he is so bad, while a better man is punished because he is better. What
is this but rewarding insensibility? It is very creditable to the hearts
of the lawmakers--perhaps--but it is fraud on the community. It is
legalized wickedness. It permits incarnate nuisances to wax fat, and
prey upon honest industry, and increase and multiply, until they become
the only prosperous and protected class.

It has been suggested that a criminal on his second conviction be deemed
a professional, and incarcerated for life. It would no doubt be cheaper
for the public to shut him up thus and support him permanently. But
there is the objection that the punishment would generally be out of
proportion to the crime, if it were a punishment at all; and if it were
not a punishment, we would be offering a greater premium on vice than we
now are. To punish petty larceny as if it were as great a crime as
manslaughter or murder would be too unjust to be long possible. The case
seems to demand a new medicine rather than a greater dose of one which
has failed when tried in any practicable quantities.

There is one remedy, so far as the infliction of real punishment is a
remedy, although those who administer justice as above described will
hold up their hands in horror at the mention of it. If it be a fact that
the punishment of criminals is necessary, and if it be a fact that a
class of them is impervious to any punishment except physical pain, then
we are bound to either inflict this pain or else abandon the principle
of punishment. There is no third course if the two facts are
admitted--and to those who will not admit them an unprejudiced reading
of the criminal news of the past three hundred and sixty-five days is
commended. If one man's heart is callous to what will break another's,
all men's backs are of nearly equal tenderness. It is doubtful whether
the whipping-post ever had a fair trial without proving that it might be
made a good thing under such circumstances as we must very soon, if we
do not now, confront.

The fact that it was once used and then abandoned does not settle the
case. It was erected for those who could have been otherwise dealt with,
and for those who deserved no punishment at all. It was not reserved for
only those deserving punishment, on whom our more refined penalties had
been tried and had failed. It is not a fair trial of it to put it into
the hands of a drunken or passionate ship's captain; or the hands of a
religious bigot; or the hands of a slave-driver; or the hands of a
tyrant or autocrat of any kind; or the hands of an incompetent judge; or
the hands of any judge in a ruder age than this. If an ignorant or
brutal use of it in the past condemns an enlightened use of it now, we
should abandon life-taking and imprisonment, for these have been even
more abused. We have no fear that the death penalty will be misused
hereafter because men have been hung for petty larceny heretofore. When
the lash is wielded by a barbarous hand, as it generally has been, of
course we abhor it. But how about it when the hand of Christ wields it
in the temple? Although the incarnation of charity made him a scourge
for those who needed it, yet we cannot follow His example because
Torquemadas have made scourges for those who did not need them. Such is
the logic of those who would cite the past in this matter. The truth is,
the lash was abandoned in the humane belief that criminals could be
punished without it; and the truth also is, some criminals are now
proving that they cannot be punished without it.

Go over the subject as we may, we come back to the question, Is the lash
or something equally unrefined necessary to accomplish all the law now
attempts? It must be looked at in the cold light of certain very sad
facts, as well as in the warm blaze of "chromo" civilization. If we are
not yet compelled to answer it in the affirmative, there is so much
evidence pointing toward such an answer, that it is well to consider
very respectfully indeed whatever can be said on the unpopular side. It
need not frighten those who accept the idea so tersely presented by the
Hare Brothers--of which one is strongly reminded by Mr. Greg in the
"Enigmas of Life," although perhaps he does not expressly state it--that
the tendency of civilization is to barbarism.

Of course flogging is not a panacea; but it is for those who profit by
nothing gentler; and the more enlightened society becomes the more
certainly can these be identified. The generous feeling that has
discontinued it would not cease to be a guarantee against its abuse. Our
courts cannot depart far from public sentiment. We can trust judges and
juries to determine who deserves castigation just as safely as to
determine who deserves imprisonment or death. Most of the censure they
now receive in their treatment of the hopelessly depraved is for their
lenity and not their rigor. There is no offender would not dread and
wish to avoid whipping. Certainly no one would offend for the purpose of
receiving it; and it would probably discourage a man in less than ten
years from breaking the same window. It would be inexpensive, and would
have the merit of being short and sharp, if not decisive. Punishment,
intimidation, is what is here considered, and the point is whether it
shall be administered to all who deserve it, or whether the law society
finds necessary for its protection shall be a falsehood, at war with
itself--a sham. The law cannot shrink from anything that is necessary to
its purpose without impeaching its purpose.

And is it more inhuman to hurt the back of one who cannot be made to
feel anything else than it is to pain the heart and hurt the soul of one
who can? How can Christians so exalt the flesh above the spirit? They
did not do it in the primitive days of the faith. Is it more barbarous
to scourge the body than to gall it with irons, or poison and debilitate
it by confinement, or wear it out by inches at hard labor? We have not
abolished corporeal punishment--only rejected a form of it which is
frequently more merciful, if more dreaded, than some that are retained.

All wrongs right themselves by "inhumanity," if permitted to go far
enough. You are told by good authority, and you know without telling,
that if you find a burglar in your house at night, you perform a public
duty by shooting him dead rather than see him escape. From the
humanitarian point of view, this is certainly more dreadful than it
would have been to stop, by flogging, any minor offences that led him
into your house. Indeed, if the penalty for the burglary itself were a
"barbarous" laceration of his back, it would doubtless have more effect
in keeping him from the burglary and from a bloody death, than does the
risk of imprisonment. We must not whip him in obedience to the law, but
we may safely shoot him dead without regard to it. It is our tenderness
that becomes "inhuman" if it be not wisely bestowed. Would it be quite
in keeping with the pretensions of "advanced" civilization to see the
matrons and maids of the rural neighborhoods going about their dairies
and summer kitchens with revolvers in their belts, and bowie-knives in
their bosoms? That is the spectacle the "tramp" nuisance promises to
produce. Would the whipping-post, set up in the slums of the great
cities, where the miscreants among the tramps breed and form their
characters, look any more like barbarism? The voluntary tramp has but
shown the countryman during the summer what the city suffers during the
winter. He is simply trying to distribute and equalize himself, and
while enjoying his country air, collects the same taxes he collects all
the rest of the year in town. Let the city continue to rear him
tenderly, and not hurt his precious carcass, and feed and warm him, and
punish only his sensitive spirit, until the country people get down
their shot-guns and make a barbarous end of him. And this is being true
to the cause of humanity.

It is noble for the law to withhold its hand when one who has taken a
wrong step can be won back to a good life by other means; and if the
wretches hopelessly saturated with vice can be intimidated by anything
milder than flogging, by all means be mild; but when we find one who
cannot, why not acknowledge the fact and act on it?

The reason why we do not so act is only a sentimental one. A sentimental
reason, however, may be a very good one. Society feels that it is better
to suffer, and to see its laws become a mockery to this degree, than to
shock its own best instincts. This sentiment that obstructs absolute
vindication of the law is respectable so long as it can be respected
with tolerable safety and public satisfaction. But it interferes with
justice by courtesy, and not by right. It is all very well so long as
society does not complain. But if its mouthpieces are to be believed,
society does complain. The public is not satisfied with the present
punishment of certain offenders--indicated with sufficient accuracy by
the tough old Langheimer and the English window-breaker--and is restive
under the pecuniary burden they impose.

Although the history of the whipping-post is nearly worthless to one
seeking to know what its value might be under all the favorable
conditions with which it could be surrounded now and here, yet it is
possible to point readily to one trial that should have been, and
probably was, a fair one. A very few years ago--perhaps four or
five--garroting became a terror to the London pedestrian. For assault
and robbery, without intent to kill, the death penalty was too terrible,
and the other penalties failed to intimidate, as they generally do when
the crime is lucrative, easily accomplished, and not immediately
dangerous. It could not be trifled with, and something had to be done. A
"barbarous" whipping of the bare back was resorted to, and garroting
subsided. The result was what the public wanted. Sentimental eyes may
show their whites, horrified hands may go up, floods of twaddle may come
forth in sympathy with the discouraged garroter, but men of common
sense, especially if they have been garroted themselves, will say the
end was worth what it cost, and believe in the inhumanity that achieved
it.

Nothing has been said of Delaware. No valuable lesson could be drawn
from her without considerable investigation, and perhaps not then. She
may do too much flogging, or she may not do enough. Her ministers of
justice may be models of enlightenment, or they may be models of
debasement. The lash there may be still a class instrument, or it may
not. She has no great city--an exceedingly important consideration--and
two portions of her people are jostling each other as nominal equals in
the race of life, who but the other day held the relation of master and
slave. She is probably not indifferent to a good name, and her retention
of the whip under all the sneers she receives is some evidence that she
at least regards it as still having a defensible use.

                   CHAUNCEY HICKOX.




RENUNCIATION.


  Could I recall thee from that silent shore
  Whence never word may reach our longing ears,
  To gaze upon thee thro' my happy tears,
  And call thee back to life and joy once more,
  Could I refrain? If at my touch Death's door
  Would open for thee, and thy glad eyes shine
  With swift surprise of life, straight into mine,
  And we might dwell with love for evermore,
  Could I forbear? God knows, who still denies.
  Yet being dead, thou art all mine again:
  No fear of change can break that perfect rest,
  Nor can I be where thou art not; thine eyes
  Smile at me out of heaven, and still my pain,
  And the whole pitying earth is at thy breast.

                   KATE HILLARD.




THE EASTERN QUESTION.


"The last word in the Eastern Question," said Lord Derby, "is
Constantinople." If for Constantinople we read not merely the city
itself, but that half of Turkey in Europe bordering upon the Black Sea
and the Sea of Marmora, and understand the real point to be, Shall or
shall not Russia have it? we have the whole Eastern Question in a
nutshell. Russia is bound by every consideration of policy and interest
to get it if she can. Great Britain is bound by every consideration of
interest, and even of self-preservation, to prevent it if she can.
Germany, Austria, and France are bound to prevent it, if possible,
unless they can at the same time gain equivalent advantages which shall
leave them relatively to each other, and especially to Russia, not less
powerful than they now are. The other nations of Europe may be left out
of view in considering the question; for their interest in it is less
vital, and they could do little toward the result, except as allies to
one side or the other, in case of a general European war in which the
great Powers should be quite evenly balanced, when their comparatively
small weight might turn the scale.

A glance at the map will show the paramount importance to Russia of the
acquisition of this territory. Comprising more than half of all Europe,
she is practically cut off from the navigable seas. She has, indeed, a
long coast-line upon the Arctic ocean, but she has there only the
inconsiderable port of Archangel, and this can be reached only by
rounding the North Cape and sailing far within the Arctic Circle, while
the port itself is blocked up by ice seven months of the year. She also
borders for seven hundred miles upon the Baltic and the Gulf of Bothnia;
but here, in the northwestern corner of her territory, she has only two
tolerable ports, Cronstadt and Riga, and these are frozen up for nearly
half the year; but from these ports is carried on three-fourths of her
foreign commerce. She next touches salt water in the Black Sea, almost
1,500 miles from St. Petersburg, on the extreme south of her territory.
This sea, half of whose shores belongs to Russia, is 720 miles long, and
380 miles wide at its broadest point, covering an area, including the
connected Sea of Azof, of nearly 200,000 square miles--more than twice
that of all the great lakes of North America. Russia wishes to be a
great maritime power. The Black Sea has good harbors and abundant
facilities for building ships and exercising fleets. Into it fall all
the great rivers of the southern half of Russia, except the Volga, whose
mouth is in the Caspian; and the Volga may properly be considered a
Black Sea river, for a railway, or perhaps even a canal of a few
leagues, would connect it with the Don and the other rivers of the Black
Sea system. The Black Sea is emphatically a Russian sea; but Russia
enjoys the valuable use of it only by the sufferance of whomsoever holds
Constantinople. By the treaty of Paris, concluded in 1856, after the
reverses of the Crimean war, Russia agreed not to maintain a fleet
there; and it was not till 1870 that taking advantage of the critical
position of the other great Powers, she declared that this article of
the treaty was abrogated. She has now a strong fleet of iron-clads and
other steamers in the sea, but the actual strength of this fleet is
unknown except to herself. It was certainly powerful three years ago,
and is doubtless much more powerful now. A vessel and crew which has
navigated the "Bad Black Sea." as the Turks call it, has nothing to fear
from the broadest ocean. But this sea is liable at any moment to be a
closed one to Russia. No Russian man-of-war has, we believe, ever sailed
into or out of it; no merchantman can enter or leave it except by the
Bosporus and the Dardanelles, which are its gates, and of these gates
Turkey holds the keys.

The Black Sea is joined to the deep, narrow Sea of Marmora by the
straits of the Bosporus, twenty miles long and from three-quarters of a
mile to two and a half miles wide. Just where the straits open out into
the Sea of Marmora stands Constantinople, a spot marked out by nature as
the one on the whole globe best fitted for the site of a great
metropolis. At its western extremity the Sea of Marmora--about one
hundred miles long, with a maximum breadth of forty-three
miles--contracts into the straits usually called the Dardanelles, which
is properly the name of four castles, which, two on each side, command
the passage, here less than a mile wide. Both straits could easily be so
fortified as to be impassable by the combined navies of the world; and
even now we suppose that only the best armored iron-clads could safely
undertake to force the passage, in or out, of the Dardanelles.

Let us now consider the fearful preponderance which Russia would gain by
the possession of these straits, including of course that half of
European Turkey bordering upon them. We have seen that the shores of the
Black Sea furnish every facility for the construction of a navy of any
required strength, and its waters afford ample space for its training.
With these approaches in her grasp, Russia might in ten years construct
and discipline her fleet there, perfectly safe from molestation by the
navies of Europe. Fleets built and equipped at Sebastopol, Kherson, and
Nicolaief, could sweep through the Dardanelles, closed to all except
themselves, enter the Archipelago and the Mediterranean, and dominate
over their shores and over the commerce of every nation which has to use
these waters as a highway. In case of its happening at any time to find
itself overmatched, the Russian fleet could repass the gates of the
Dardanelles, and be as safe from pursuit as an army would be if
sheltered behind the rocks of Gibraltar.

Great Britain would be first and most immediately menaced by this; for a
strong military and naval power established on the Bosporus would hold
in command the shortest way of communication with her possessions in
India. The Czar would hold in control the route by way of the Suez
canal: or at best Great Britain could keep it open only by maintaining a
vastly superior fleet in the Mediterranean; and it would be difficult
for her to maintain there a fleet which would not be practically
overmatched by one which Russia could easily keep up in the Black Sea
and the Sea of Marmora. The days are past when a Hood or a Nelson might
safely risk a battle if the odds against him were much less than two to
one. A British admiral must henceforth make his count upon meeting skill
and seamanship equal to his own, and whatever advantage he gains must be
gained by sheer preponderance of force.

If Great Britain is to retain her Indian empire, a collision there
between her and Russia is a foregone conclusion. An empire which, under
a succession of sovereigns of very different character, has steadily
pressed its march of conquest through the deserts of Turkistan, will not
be likely to look without longing eyes upon the fertile valley of the
Indus; and here Russia would have a fearful advantage in position. The
Suez route practically closed, as it would be in the event of a war,
Britain could only reach India by the long voyage around the Cape of
Good Hope, while Russia would have broad highways for the march of her
troops to the banks of the Indus, whence she could menace the whole
peninsula of Hindostan.

We indeed do not think that the possession of her Indian empire adds
anything to the power of Great Britain. She has never derived any direct
revenue from it. The Indian expenditures to-day exceed, and are likely
in the future to exceed, the revenues. All the vast amounts of plunder
and "loot" which individuals, the East India Company, or the Crown have
gained, have cost to get them more than they were worth. Unlike
Australia and the Dominion of Canada, India offers no field for
colonization for men of British blood, where they or their children may
build up a new Britain under strange stars. It has come to be an
accepted fact that Englishmen cannot long retain health and vigor in
India, and that their offspring, born there, rarely survive childhood
unless sent "home" at an early age. Britain holds India purely and
absolutely as a conquered and subjugated territory. Whether British rule
in India is, upon the whole, a blessing or a curse to the natives, is a
matter of grave doubt; that it is most unwillingly borne, is beyond all
question. It is a despotism pure and unmixed, and a despotism of the
most galling kind--a despotism exercised by a horde alien in race and
religion, alien in habits and modes of thought, in life and manners, in
customs and ideas. Macaulay, when in power in India, forty years ago,
said of it the best that can be said: "India cannot have a free
government; but she may have the next best thing--a firm and impartial
despotism." To maintain this despotism, even against the feeble natives
alone, imposes a heavy strain upon the British government. The British
empire in India is only a thin crust overlying a bottomless quagmire,
into which it is in peril of sinking at any moment by a force from above
or an upheaval from below. How nearly this came to pass during the
accidental Sepoy mutiny of twenty years ago, is known to all men. Had
that mutiny chanced to have broken out three years before, during the
Crimean war, it is safe to say that the course of the world's history
would have taken a different turn. Since then Great Britain has
apparently somewhat consolidated this crust, but it is yet thin, and the
weight of Russia thrown upon it could scarcely fail to break it through.

The commercial value of India to Great Britain is, we think, vastly
exaggerated. India, in proportion to her population, has always been,
and is likely long to be, a very poor country. The trade of Great
Britain with India--exports and imports--is not much greater than that
with France, considerably less than that with Germany, and far less than
that with the United States; and we see no reason to suppose that it is
perceptibly increased by the subjugation of India to the British crown.
India sells to Great Britain what she can, and buys from her what she
wants and can pay for, and would continue to do so in any case. Still,
we do not imagine that the British government or people will ever be
brought to take our view of the value of India to them. It will be held
to the last extremity of the national power, and will only be abandoned
under stress of the direst necessity. And for her secure possession of
India it is absolutely essential, for reasons which have been stated,
that whoever else may have Constantinople in the future, Russia shall
not have it. England's interest in the question is a purely selfish one.
She is content to have the Turks there because for the time being they
keep the Russians out. Whatever worth may formerly have been in the
sentimental averment that it is the duty of the European family of
nations to see to it that no weak member of it is gravely wronged by a
stronger one is past and gone. It is from no love for the Turks that
Great Britain desires that the Sultan should continue to hold at least
nominal sovereignty over Turkey in Europe, and the actual custody of the
keys of the Black Sea. An able English writer says:[H]

    The position of the Turk at Constantinople is no choice of
    ours, nor any creation of our policy. We do not maintain him
    for any love of himself, nor because we rely on his strength
    to guard the post--though that is absurdly underrated. His
    corruption and weakness are at least as great an
    embarrassment to us as an injury to the nations of his
    empire. But the whole Eastern question hangs upon the fact
    that he is there, and has been there with a long
    prescriptive right which he is not likely to yield, or to
    have wrested from his grasp till after a frantic struggle of
    despair. Nor is any practical mode apparent by which he will
    be soon displaced, save that, after a convulsion which would
    involve all Europe, the Czar should be enthroned upon the
    Bosporus. To prevent that catastrophe, and to avert the
    horrors that must precede it, is our real Eastern policy.

[Footnote H: "Quarterly Review;" October, 1876.]

Still more emphatic is the declaration of Lord Derby, the British
Premier, when defending the action of the Government in sending the
Mediterranean fleet, last May, to Besika Bay, at the mouth of the
Dardanelles: "We have in that part of the world great interests which we
must protect.... It is said that we sent the fleet to the Dardanelles to
maintain the Turkish empire. I entirely deny it. _We sent the fleet to
maintain the interests of the British empire._"

Let us now glance rapidly at Turkey in Europe, the coveted prize in this
case. Nominally, and upon the maps, it comprises all except the southern
apex of the great triangular peninsula bounded on the east by the Black
Sea, the Sea of Marmora, and the Archipelago; on the west by the
Adriatic; on the north, the broad base of the peninsula, it is bounded
by Austria; on the south, the narrow apex, by Greece. Russia touches it
only on the northeast corner. Its area is in round numbers 200,000
square miles, not differing materially from that of France or Germany,
or about five-sixths of that of Austria. No other part of Europe, of
anything like equal extent, combines so many natural advantages of
geographical position, soil, and climate. The population is variously
estimated at from 13,000,000 upward; we think that 17,000,000 is a
tolerably close approximation. Of these, in round numbers, only about
2,000,000 are Turks, or, as they style themselves, Osmanlis; 11,500,000
are of various Sclavonic races; 1,500,000 are Albanians; 1,000,000
Greeks; the remainder Armenians, Jews, and Gipsies. In religion there,
there are about 4,800,000 Mohammedans, nearly half of whom are not
Osmanlis, the remainder being of Sclavonic descent, whose ancestors
embraced Islam in order to save their estates; they are, however, quite
as devoted Mussulmans as are the Osmanlis themselves. There are now
about 12,000,000 Christians, of whom some 11,000,000 belong to the Greek
Church, and nearly 1,000,000 are in communion with the Church of Rome.
The name Ottomans is officially given to all the subjects of the empire,
irrespective of race or religion; all except Mussulmans are specifically
designated as _Rayahs_, "the flock." Nominally, at least, by the new
Constitution promulgated in December, 1876, while Islam is the religion
of the State, all subjects are equal before the law, and all, without
distinction of race or creed, are alike eligible for civil and military
positions.

But a very considerable part of this territory is not properly included
in the Ottoman empire. The principality of Roumania, in the northeastern
corner, made up of what was formerly known as Wallachia and Moldavia,
with a population of about 4,500,000, is practically independent, under
a prince of the house of Hohenzollern, elected in 1866. It merely
acknowledges the suzerainty of the Sultan, to whom it pays an annual
tribute of some $200,000. Servia, on the north, bordering upon Austria,
with a population something less than 1,500,000, has for years been
really independent, merely paying a tribute of less than $100,000.

Roumania and Servia are strongly under Russian influence. Besides these
is the little State of Montenegro, on the Adriatic, with a population of
less than 200,000, which disowns the suzerainty of the Sultan, and has
for many months waged a fierce but desultory war against him.

Of what properly constitutes Turkey in Europe, with a population of some
11,000,000, the following are the principal divisions, designating them
by their former names, by which they are still best known: south of
Roumania, and between the Danube and the Balkhan mountains, is Bulgaria;
south of Bulgaria is Roumelia, in which Constantinople is situated; in
the northwest is Herzegovina; between which and Servia is Bosnia; on the
west, along the Adriatic, is Albania. In estimating the defensive
strength of the Ottoman empire we must take main account of Turkey in
Asia, with a population of some 17,000,000, by far the larger portion of
whom are Osmanlis, devoted to Islam, warlike by nature, and fully
capable, as was shown in the Crimean war, of being moulded into
excellent soldiers. But our present concern is with Turkey in Europe.

If the ingenuity of man, working through long centuries of misrule, had
set itself to the task of developing a form of government the most
potent for evil and the least powerful for good, the system could not
have been worse than that which exists in European Turkey; and the worst
of it is that no one but the most hopeful optimist can perceive in it
the slightest hope of reform or practical amendment. In theory the
Sultan is the recognized organ of all executive power in the State. The
dignity is hereditary in the house of Osman; but the brother of a
deceased or deposed Sultan takes precedence of the son, as being nearer
in blood to the great founder of the house. A Sultan, therefore, must
see in his brother a possible rival, who must, in case his life is
spared, be kept immured in the seclusion of the harem. A Sultan who
succeeds his brother naturally comes to the throne at a somewhat mature
age, but as ignorant as a babe of all that belongs to the duties of
government; lucky it is if he is not also physically and mentally worn
out by debauchery and excess. Turkish history is full of instances where
one of the first acts of a Sultan has been to order the execution of his
brothers and nephews. Thus Mahmoud II. put to death his infant nephew,
the son of his predecessor, and caused three pregnant inmates of the
harem to be flung into the Bosporus in order to make sure the
destruction of their unborn offspring. The actual task of government is
in some sort divided between the Sultan and the "Porte," a term which is
used to designate the chief dignitaries of the State. The "Sublime
Porte" is the Council of the Grand Vizier, who presides over the Council
of State, consisting of the ministers for home affairs, for foreign
affairs, and for executive acts, with several secretaries, one of whom
is supposed to be answerable that the acts of the ministry are in
conformity with, the supreme law of the Koran. The Porte of the
Defterdar, or Minister of Finance, whose council is styled the "Divan,"
consists of several ministers and other functionaries. The "Agha"
formerly comprised many civil and military officials whose duties were
in some way immediately connected with the person of the Sultan, not
very unlike what we call a "kitchen cabinet." The foregoing are all
designated as "Dignitaries of the Pen." The "Dignitaries of the Sword"
are the viceregal and provincial governors, styled pachas and beys. They
are at once civil and military commanders; and, most important of all,
tax-gatherers, and not infrequently farmers as well as receivers of
taxes. If they forward to the Porte the required sum of money, little
care is had as to the manner in which their other duties are performed
or neglected. The manifold extortions of the local pachas keep one part
or another of the empire, not only in Europe, but in Asia, in a state of
perpetual insurrection, of which little is ever heard abroad.

The Koran is the acknowledged source of all law, civil and
ecclesiastical. Its interpreter is the _Sheikh-ul-Islam_, "the Chief of
the Faithful," sometimes styled the "Grand Mufti." He is the head of the
_Ulemi_, or "Wise Men," comprising the body of great jurists,
theologians, and _literati_, any or all of whom he may summon to his
council. He is appointed for life by the Sultan, and may be removed by
him. His office is in theory, and sometimes in practice, one of great
importance. To him and his council the Sultan is supposed to refer every
act of importance. He does not declare war or conclude peace until the
Grand Mufti has formally pronounced the act "conformable to the law." It
is only in virtue of his _fetwa_, or decree, that the deposition of a
Sultan is legalized. A _fetwa_ from him would summon around the standard
of the Prophet all the fanatical hordes of Islam to fight to the death
against the infidels, in the firm belief that death on the battlefield
is a sure passport to Paradise. With the Koran as the supreme law, and
the Sheikh-ul-Islam its sole interpreter, nothing can be more futile
than the provision of the new Constitution of December, 1876, that "the
prerogatives of the Sultan are those of the constitutional sovereigns of
the West."

It is necessary here to touch only briefly upon the rise and decline of
the Turkish empire in Europe. The Osmanlis take their name from Osman,
the leader of a Tartar horde driven out from the confines of the Chinese
empire, who overran Asia Minor. His great-grandson, Amurath I., crossed
into Europe, took Adrianople in 1361, and overran Bulgaria and Servia.
Several of his successors pushed far into Hungary and Poland. Mohammed
II. took Constantinople in 1453, and brought the Byzantine empire to a
close. Selim I. (1512-'20) extended his dominion over Mesopotamia,
Syria, and Egypt. Solyman II., "the Magnificent" (1520-1566), raised the
Turkish power to its highest point. He took Buda in 1529; and in 1532
besieged Vienna with a force of 300,000 men, but was routed by the
Polish John Sobieski, with a force hardly a tenth as great. But for
another half century the Turkish power was sufficient to inspire terror
in all Christendom. With the death of Solyman, the power of the Turks
began to wane, slowly but surely, and at the close of the last century
the expulsion of the Turks from Europe seemed close at hand. The great
wars of the French Revolution gave them a new lease of possession, and
at its close Sultan Mahmoud II., who was by blood half French,[I]
endeavored to introduce reforms which some men hoped and others feared
would restore the Ottoman Empire. But the result showed the
impossibility of patching up rotten garments with new cloth. The Greek
revolution broke out, and at its close the Sultan found himself no match
for his vassal, Mehemet Ali, Pacha of Egypt, and it was only the
intervention of Russia, Austria, and Great Britain which prevented the
Pacha from establishing at Constantinople the seat of a new empire,
which, be it what it might, would not have been Turkish. What were the
reasons of Great Britain and France it is not now easy to say. Those of
Russia are patent: she wanted Constantinople to remain in the hands of
the Turks until she herself was in a position to seize it. From that
time the Ottoman Empire became the "sick man of Europe," around whose
bedside all the other powers were watching, each determined that none of
the others should gain the greater share in his estates when he died. In
1844 they formally adopted him into the family of the nations of Europe,
and promised that his safety should be the common care of all.

[Footnote I: His mother was a Creole, a native of Martinique, and cousin
of that other Creole who came to be the Empress Josephine. She had been
sent to France to be educated, and on her voyage homeward was captured
by an Algerine pirate who sold her to the Dey, by whom she was sent as a
present to the Sultan, whose favorite Sultana she became.]

Russia, in the mean while, was busy in endeavoring to make herself the
patron of the Christian subjects of the Sultan, and when the time
appeared ripe, entered upon those overt acts which led to the Crimean
war. Out of this war the Ottoman Empire came with considerable apparent
advantage. The man supposed to be sick unto death showed that there was
unexpected vitality--of a spasmodic sort indeed--in his Asiatic members;
and again there were hopes and fears of his ultimate convalescence, if
not of restoration to robust health. That those hopes and fears were
baseless is now clear enough. Never was the sick man so feeble as within
the last five years.

The existing crisis in the Eastern Question came about in the ordinary
course of things. In the summer of 1875 the pecuniary needs of the
Sublime Porte were more than usually urgent, and the tax-gatherers were
even more than usually exacting. The normal result ensued: there were
local risings in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A secret Bulgarian
revolutionary committee, favored by Russia, has for years existed in
Bucharest, the capital of Roumania. They sent emissaries into Bulgaria
to excite an insurrection in that province. The plan was to set fire to
Adrianople and Philippopolis, each in scores of places, to burn other
towns, mainly inhabited by Mussulmans, and force all the Bulgarian
Rayahs to join the uprising. The insurrection broke out prematurely in
May, 1876, and only a few were actively engaged in it. Two or three
thousand troops would have been sufficient to have quelled the rising;
but there were none in the province, and despite the urgent appeals of
the Pacha none were sent. The Mussulmans, who are in a fearful minority
there, were thrown into a panic; and the Pacha gave orders for calling
an ignorant and fanatical population to arms. Regular troops were at
last sent. The Turks gained an easy victory, and perpetrated those
ineffable atrocities, the recital of which sent a thrill of horror
throughout Christendom. The Bulgarians fled northward toward Servia,
pursued by the Turks, who it is said made predatory incursions. Prince
Milan made some extraordinary demands upon the Sultan, among which were
that the government of Bulgaria should be committed to him and that of
Bosnia to Prince Nicholas of Herzegovina. The Grand Vizier refused to
listen to these demands; whereupon the Prince called the Servians to
arms, declared war against the Sultan, invaded Bulgaria, and soon
assumed the title of King of Servia. His invasion of Bulgaria met with
ill success. Although aided by many Russian soldiers and officers,
absent on special leave from their regiments, the Servians were driven
back over their frontiers; and the war was finally suspended by a truce
for six months. We suppose that there can be no doubt that the rising in
Bulgaria and the action of Servia were favored, if not by the Czar
personally, yet by the Russian government, although it would, if
possible, have withheld Prince Milan from declaring war when he did. The
Servian Bishop Strossmayer expressly affirms that the insurrection in
Herzegovina was prematurely commenced against the advice of Russia, and
that Servia and Montenegro went to war of their own accord, though they
have naturally accepted the Russian aid since accorded to them. He adds
that Prince Gortschakoff, who in the Russian government is all that
Prince Bismarck is in that of Germany, the year before last "informed
Prince Milan that Russia was unprepared; that only within three years
did she count on taking Constantinople; and that only then would she
call on the Sclaves of the South to plant the Greek cross on the dome of
St. Sophia."

Meanwhile, on the news of the Turkish atrocities in Bulgaria, the Czar
put his troops in motion toward the Turkish frontier, and made demands
upon the Sultan which, if acceded to, would have practically made the
Czar the actual sovereign of all Turkey in Europe north of the Balkhan.
Great Britain sent her fleet to the mouth of the Dardanelles to
"maintain the interests of the British empire" in that part of the
world. Diplomatic notes and rejoinders passed between the cabinets of
the great Powers; and early in January an International Conference was
assembled at Constantinople to endeavor to settle, or at least to stave
off the present crisis in the Eastern Question; Great Britain, through
her representative, the Earl of Salisbury, apparently taking the lead.
As we write, in the early days of February, all that is definitely known
is: The Conference has utterly failed; the Sultan absolutely refused to
accede to the propositions made to him; and the ambassadors of the great
Powers have been withdrawn from Constantinople. Surmises and rumors as
to what will next be done are rife; not the least significant or the
least probable being that the Emperors of Germany, Russia, and Austria
are consulting as to taking the matter into their own hands. Whatever
the immediate issue may be--whether a peace of some kind; a partial war
between Russia on the one side, and Turkey, with or without Great
Britain, on the other; or a general European war--of one thing we may be
certain: it will not cause Russia to more than postpone still longer her
long-cherished determination to have Constantinople.

Mr. Carlyle has suggested, as a final settlement of the Eastern
Question, that Turkey in Europe should be divided between Russia,
Austria, and Great Britain. But, as is his wont, he leaves out some
essential factors in the problem. No part of this territory would be of
the slightest use to Great Britain, except perhaps the island of Candia
as a sort of half-way house in the highway to India by the Suez canal.
She has everything to lose and little more than nothing to gain by any
such partition, which, as it necessarily must, would give Constantinople
to Russia. Mr. Carlyle has so thorough a dislike to France--and with him
dislike is nearly equivalent to contempt--that he naturally leaves her
out of the problem. But it is surprising that he leaves out his favorite
Germany, perhaps the most important factor of all.

We can conceive of a partition of Turkey between Russia and Austria
which would be so manifestly and equally advantageous to both that they
might agree to it. And the line of division is clearly indicated by
nature. Austria, like every other great civilized nation, desires to be
a maritime power; but she touches the sea only at one point, the head of
the Adriatic, with the narrow strip known as Dalmatia, running half way
down its eastern coast. There are only two considerable ports, Trieste
and Fiume. Eastward, and back of Dalmatia, are Servia, Bosnia, and
Herzegovina; and below these, on the Adriatic, is the long coast-line of
Albania, with several good harbors. Across the narrowing isthmus is the
Archipelago, with the excellent harbor of Salonika. Now look on any
tolerable map, and one will see on the eastern borders of Servia, where
the Danube breaks through the Carpathians, a range of mountains shooting
southward to and crossing the Balkhan, from which it is continued still
southward to the Archipelago, the whole dividing European Turkey into
two almost equal halves. Let Russia take the eastern half, comprising
Roumania, Bulgaria, and the half of Roumelia, including Constantinople,
the whole shore of the Sea of Marmora and the Dardanelles--all that she
really needs or cares for. Let Austria take the other half, which would
give her the whole eastern coast of the Adriatic, and a large frontage
on the Archipelago, and so a double access to the Mediterranean and
thence to the ocean. She would acquire thereby an access of valuable
territory equal to almost half of her present dominions, which would
render her relatively to Russia fully as strong as she now is.

But such a partition could not be carried into effect without the
concurrence of Germany, for Germany is undoubtedly as a military power
much stronger than Russia. Germany certainly would never assent unless
she could somewhere get something equivalent to that gained by Austria
and Russia, and not an inch of Turkey would be of any use to her. But in
quite another part of Europe is a territory comparatively small in
extent, which would be of priceless value to Germany. This is the little
kingdom of Holland, which is indeed physically a part of Germany, and
essential to the rounding off of the boundaries of the new empire. It
would give her an extended sea-front, which is what she also needs in
order to become a great naval and commercial power. It would give her
also in the Zuyder Zee a naval depot and harbor of refuge inferior only
to that of the Black Sea, and immeasurably superior to any other in
Europe. Furthermore, with Holland would go the possession of Java and as
many other great islands in the Indian Ocean as she might choose to
seize and colonize. To Holland, indeed, we think such an annexation
would be a decided gain. Her people are in race, language, and religion
closely allied to the Germans. It would be better for her to become a
State, inferior only to Prussia, of the great German empire, than a
feeble kingdom, always at the mercy of her powerful neighbors. But
whether it would be for her good or not, would not be likely to be much
taken into account should the great Powers agree upon a reconstruction
of the political map of Europe. The interests of France would suffer no
material damage from this, provided she were left free to extend her
Algerian possessions over the whole Mediterranean coast of Africa, now
almost a desert, but once the granary of the Roman empire, and
abundantly capable of being restored to its ancient fertility; or in
case she should think her dignity required something more, she might
receive in Belgium far more than a counterpoise for her recent loss of
Alsace-Lorraine.

Suppose that in some not remote future the policy of Russia, Germany,
and Austria shall happen to be directed by statesmen as able and
unscrupulous as Gortschakoff, Bismarck, and Von Beust, we think such a
settlement of the Eastern Question by no means an improbable one. And
should these Powers agree to effect it, all the rest of Europe could do
nothing to the contrary.

                   A. H. GUERNSEY.




THE LASSIE'S COMPLAINT.


  Now simmer cleeds the groves in green,
    An' decks the flow'ry brae;
  An' fain I'd wander out at e'en,
    But out I daurna gae.
  For there's a laddie down the gate
    Wha's like a ghaist to me;
  An' gin I meet him air or late,
    He winna lat me be.

  He glow'rs like ony silly gowk,
    He ca's me heavenly fair.
  I bid him look like ither fowk,
    Nor fash me sae nae mair.
  I ca' him coof an' hav'rel too,
    An' frown wi' scornfu' ee.
  But a' I say, or a' I do,
    He winna lat me be.

                   JAMES KENNEDY.




ASSJA.

BY IVAN TOURGUÉNEFF.


I was then twenty-five years old, began N. N. As you see, the story is
of days long past. I was absolutely my own master, and was making a
foreign tour, not to "finish my education," as the phrase is nowadays,
but to look about me in the world a little. I was healthy, young,
light-hearted; I had plenty of money and as yet no cares; I lived in the
present and did precisely as I wished; in one word, life was in full
flower with me. It did not occur to me that man is not like a plant, and
that his time of bloom is but once. Youth eats its gilded gingerbread,
and thinks that is to be its daily food; but the time comes when one
longs in vain for a bit of dry bread. But it is not worth while to speak
of that.

I was travelling without aim or plan: made stops wherever it pleased me,
and went on whenever I felt the need of seeing fresh faces--especially
faces. Men interested me above all things. I detested monuments,
collections of curiosities. The mere sight of a guide roused in me
feelings of weariness and fury. In the Dresden "Grüne Gewölbe" I nearly
lost my wits. Nature made a powerful impression upon me; but I did not
love her so-called beauties--her mighty hills, her crags and torrents. I
did not like to have them take possession of me and disturb my
tranquillity. Faces, on the contrary--living, earthly faces, men's talk,
laughter, movements--I could not do without. In the midst of a crowd I
was always particularly gay and at my ease. It gave me real pleasure
merely to go where others went, to shout when others shouted, and at the
same time to observe how these others shouted. It pleased me to observe
men--yes, I did not observe them merely; I studied them with a delighted
and insatiable curiosity. But I am digressing again.

Twenty years ago, then, I was living in the little German town of S----,
on the left bank of the Rhine. I sought solitude. I had been wounded to
the heart by a young widow whose acquaintance I had made at a
watering-place. She was extremely pretty and vivacious, flirted with
everybody--alas! with me also, poor rustic! At first she had lifted me
to the skies, but soon plunged me in despair when she sacrificed me to a
rosy-cheeked lieutenant from Bavaria. Seriously speaking, the wound in
my heart was not very deep; but I considered it my duty to give myself
for a time to melancholy and retirement--what pleasure youth finds in
these!--and accordingly settled myself in S----.

This little town had attracted me by its position at the foot of high
hills, by its old walls and towers, its hundred-year-old diadems, its
steep bridges over the clear little brook which flowed into the Rhine,
but above all by its good wine. And after sunset--it was in June--the
loveliest of fair-haired Rhineland girls sauntered through the narrow
streets and cried, "Good evening!" in their sweet tones to the stranger
whom they met, some of them even lingering still when the moon rose
behind the peaked roofs of the old houses, and the little stones of the
pavement showed distinctly in her steady light. Then I delighted in
strolling about the old town. The moon seemed to look down benignly from
a cloudless sky, and the town received this glance and lay peacefully
there wrapped in sleep and veiled in moonbeams--the light that at once
soothes and vaguely stirs the soul. The weathercock upon the high, sharp
spire gleamed in dull gold; long gleams of gold quivered on the dark
surface of the stream; some dim lights--O thrifty German folk!--burned
here and there in the small windows under the slated roofs; the vines
stretched out mysterious fingers from the walls; something stirred
perhaps in the shadow of the fountain in the little three-cornered
market-place; suddenly the sleepy cry of the watchman sounded; then a
good-natured dog growled in an undertone; and the air kissed the brow so
softly, and the lindens smelled so sweet, that the breast involuntarily
heaved quicker, and the word "Gretchen" rose to the lips, half a cry,
half question.

This little town of S---- lies about two versts from the Rhine. I went
often to look at the majestic river, and would sit for hours upon a
stone bench under a lonely, large oak, thinking, not without a certain
exertion, of my faithless widow. A little statue of the Virgin, with a
red heart pierced with swords upon her breast, looked sadly out from the
leaves. On the opposite bank lay the town of L----, somewhat larger than
the one in which I had established myself. One evening I was sitting in
my favorite spot, looking in turn at the stream, the sky, and the
vineyards. Before me some white-hooded urchins were climbing over the
sides of a boat that was drawn up on the shore and lay there keel
upward. Little skiffs with sails hardly swollen passed slowly along;
green waves slid by with a gentle, rushing sound. All at once strains of
music greeted my ears. I listened. They were playing a waltz in L----.
The double bass grumbled out its broken tones, the violins rang clear
between, the flutes trilled noisily.

"What is that?" I asked an old man who approached me dressed in a plush
waistcoat, blue stockings, and shoes with buckles.

"That?" he replied, shifting his pipe from one corner of his mouth to
the other. "Those are the students who have come from B---- to the
_Commers_."

"I will see this Commers," I thought. "Besides, I have not yet been in
L----." I found a ferryman and crossed the river.

Perhaps not every one knows what a Commers is. It is a particular kind
of drinking bout, in which the students from one section, or of one
society, unite. Almost every participant of a Commers wears the
conventional costume of the German student: a short jacket, high boots,
and a little cap with colored vizor. The students generally assemble at
midday and carouse till morning, drinking, singing, smoking, and
occasionally they hire a band.

Such a Commers was at this moment held in L---- at a little inn called
the Sun, in a garden adjoining the street. Flags were flying from the
inn and over the garden itself. The students sat round tables under the
spreading lindens; a huge bulldog under one of the tables. The musicians
were under a trellis at one side, playing with great spirit, and
refreshing themselves from time to time with mugs of beer. A great crowd
had collected in the street before the unpretending little inn. The good
citizens of L---- were not of the stuff to let slip a good opportunity
of seeing strange guests. I mingled with the crowd of lookers-on. It
gave me an immense satisfaction to watch the faces of the students,
their embraces, their exclamations, the innocent affectations of youth,
the eager glances, the unrestrained laughter--the best laughter in the
world. All this generous ferment of young, fresh life, this striving
forward, no matter whither so it be forward, this rollicking,
untrammelled existence excited and infected me. Why not join them, I
thought?

"Assja, have you had enough?" suddenly asked in Russian a man's voice
behind me.

"Let us wait a little longer," answered another voice, a woman's, in the
same tongue.

I turned hastily. My eyes fell on a handsome young fellow in a loose
jacket and cap. On his arm hung a girl of medium height, with a straw
hat which entirely hid the upper part of her face.

"You are Russians?" I said aloud involuntarily.

The young man smiled and answered, "Yes; we are Russians."

"I did not expect, in such an out-of-the-way place----" I began.

"Nor did we," he interrupted me. "But what does that signify? All the
better. Permit me to introduce myself. My name is Gagin, and this
is"--he paused for an instant--"my sister. May we ask your name?"

I told him, and we began a conversation. I learned that Gagin, like
myself, was travelling for pleasure; that he had arrived at L---- the
week previous, and was now staying there. To speak candidly, I was
always unwilling to make the acquaintance of Russians in other
countries. I could recognize them at any distance by their gait, the cut
of their clothes, and more than all by the expression of their faces.
The self-satisfied, scornful, and usually haughty expression would
change suddenly to one timid and suspicious; in a moment the whole man
is on his guard, his glance wanders about unsteadily. "Have I said
anything ridiculous? Are they laughing at me?" this anxious look seems
to say. But a moment more, and the majesty of the physiognomy is
restored, only occasionally replaced by stupidity. Yes, I avoided
Russians, but Gagin pleased me at once. There are such fortunate faces
in the world. To look at them is a pleasure for every one. One feels at
once cheered and caressed by them. Gagin had just such a gentle,
attractive face, with great soft eyes and fine curly hair. When he
spoke, even if you did not see his face, you felt by the mere sound of
his voice that he was smiling.

The young girl whom he had called his sister also seemed to me at the
first glance very lovely. There was something peculiar and remarkable in
the traits of her round, brown face, with its thin, delicate nose, its
round, almost babyish cheeks, and its clear, dark eyes. Her form was
graceful, but apparently not yet fully developed. She did not in the
least resemble her brother.

"Will you come home with us?" Gagin asked me. "I think we have seen
enough of the Germans. Our beloved countrymen would certainly have
broken some window panes or smashed a few chairs, but these fellows are
quite too well behaved. What do you say, Assja, shall we go home?"

The young girl nodded assent.

"We live just beyond the village," Gagin continued, "in a little
solitary house far up the hillside. It is really fine there. You shall
see for yourself. The landlady promised me to have some buttermilk for
us. It will be dark very soon, and then you can cross the Rhine far more
pleasantly by moonlight."

We set out. Through a low gate--for the town was surrounded on all sides
by an old wall, some of whose loop-holes even yet remained
undestroyed--we gained the open country, and after we had walked about a
hundred paces beside a stone wall we came to a steep and narrow path up
the hill, into which Gagin turned. The slope on both sides was planted
with grapes. The sun had but just set, and a soft purple light rested on
the green vines, the long poles, the dusty soil covered with bits of
broken slate and stone, and upon the white walls of a small house with
steep roof and light windows, which stood high above us on the mountain
which we were climbing.

"Here is our place!" exclaimed Gagin as we drew near the house. "And
here is the landlady just bringing us our buttermilk. Good evening,
madam! We will be there in a moment. But first," he added, "look about
you once. What do you say to this outlook?"

The view was indeed charming. The Rhine lay before us, a strip of silver
between green banks. In one place it glowed in the purple and gold of
the sunset. All the houses in the little towns clustering on the shores
stood out distinctly; hills and fields spread far before us. Below us it
was lovely, but above it was lovelier still. The brilliant transparency
of the atmosphere, and the depth and purity of the sky, made a profound
impression on me. The air was fresh and exhilarating. It blew with a
light wave motion, as if it felt itself more free on the hilltop.

"You have chosen a magnificent situation," I said.

"Assja found it out," Gagin answered. "Now, Assja, give your orders. Let
us have everything brought here. We will take tea in the open air. We
can hear the music better here. Haven't you noticed it?" he went on. "A
waltz close at hand may be often good for nothing--mere commonplace
jingle. It becomes exquisite at a distance; sets all the sentimental
strings in one's heart a twanging." Assja (her name was properly Anna;
but Gagin always called her Assja, and I shall allow myself that
privilege)--Assja went into the house and soon returned with the
landlady. Both together they carried a great tea-tray with a jug full of
milk, plates, spoons, sugar, berries, and bread. We seated ourselves and
began to eat. Assja took off her hat. Her black hair, cut rather short,
and curled like a boy's, fell in thick ringlets over neck and shoulders.
At first she was shy; but Gagin said to her:

"Assja, don't be afraid. He won't hurt you!"

She smiled, and immediately addressed a little conversation to me. I
have never seen a more restless creature. She did not sit still a
moment. She stood up, ran into the house, came out again, sang in an
undertone, and laughed often in an odd way. It seemed as if she was not
laughing at what she heard, but at stray thoughts which came into her
head. Her large, clear eyes looked at us frankly and fearlessly. Now and
then, however, the lids fell, and then her glance became suddenly deep
and gentle.

For nearly two hours we chatted together. Daylight was long past, and
the twilight had changed from scarlet and gold to a faint redness, then
to a clear gray, and finally all was lost in night; but our speech
flowed as uninterruptedly, peaceful, and quiet as the air that
surrounded us. Gagin brought a bottle of Rhine wine, and we drank it
leisurely. We could still hear the music. The notes seemed fainter and
sweeter to us. Lights began to appear in the town and on the river.
Assja's head drooped forward so that her hair fell over her eyes. She
was silent and breathed heavily. Then she declared that she was sleepy,
and went into the house; but I saw that she stood for a long time behind
the closed window without lighting her lamp. Then the moon rose, and her
beams quivered on the surface of the water. Everything was bright or in
deep shadow, but certainly took on a different appearance. Even the wine
in our glasses sparkled with a mysterious brilliancy. The wind had
fallen as if it had folded its wings and were resting. Warm, spicy odors
of the night rose from the ground.

"It is time for me to go, or I shall not find a ferryman," I said.

"Yes; it is time," Gagin repeated.

We descended the footpath. Suddenly stones began to rattle down. Assja
was running after us.

"Aren't you asleep then?" her brother asked her. But she ran on before
us without replying. The last dim lights which the students had lighted
in the little inn garden showed through the branches of the trees, and
lent them a gay, fantastic appearance. We found Assja at the shore
talking to the old boatmen. I sprang into the boat and took leave of my
new friends. Gagin promised to visit me on the next day. I shook his
hand and held mine out to Assja, but she merely looked at me and nodded.
The boat was pushed off and was borne down on the swift current. The
ferryman, a hale old fellow, dipped his oars deep into the dark flood.

"You're in the streak of moonshine--you've spoiled it," Assja called
after me.

I looked down. The waves were rippling darkly about the boat.

"Good-by!" rang her voice again.

"Till to-morrow," Gagin added.

The boat touched the bank. I stepped out and looked back, but could see
no one on the shore behind me. The moonshine spanned the stream again
like a golden bridge, and like another good-by I caught the strains of
an old country waltz. Gagin was right. I felt that all the strings of my
heart trembled responsively. I crossed the dusky fields to my house,
drinking great draughts of the balmy air, and giving myself up wholly to
a sweet, vague feeling of expectation. I felt myself happy. But why? I
wished for nothing, I thought of nothing. I was merely happy.

Still smiling from the fulness of delightful and changing sensations, I
sank into bed, and had already closed my eyes when it suddenly occurred
to me that I had not thought of my cruel fair one once in the whole
evening. "What does it mean?" I asked myself. "Am I not hopelessly in
love?" But just as I put this question to myself I fell asleep, as it
seemed, like a baby in its cradle.

       *     *     *     *     *

The next morning (I was awake, but had not risen) some one knocked with
a stick under my window, and a voice that I immediately recognized as
Gagin's began to sing,

  Sleepest thou still?
  My lute shall wake thee.

I ran to open the door for him.

"Good morning," said Gagin as he entered. "I disturb you a little early.
But what a morning it is! Fresh, dewy; the larks singing." With his
wavy, shining hair, his bare neck and ruddy checks, he was as fresh as
the morning himself.

I dressed myself, and we went out into the garden, sat down upon a
bench, ordered coffee, and began to talk. Gagin confided to me his plans
for the future. Possessed of a fair property, and entirely independent,
he wished to devote himself to painting; only he regretted that this
decision had been a late one, and that he had already lost much time. I
also detailed my projects, and even took him into the secret of my
unhappy love affair. He listened patiently, but, so far as I could see,
the story of my passion did not awake any very lively sympathy in him.
After he had sighed once or twice out of good manners, he proposed to me
to come and see his studio. I was ready at once.

We did not find Assja. She had gone to the "ruin," the landlady assured
us. Two versts from L---- were the remains of a castle of the middle
ages. Gagin laid all his canvases before me. There was life and truth in
his sketches, a certain breadth and freedom of treatment, but not one
was finished, and the drawing was careless and often faulty. I told him
my opinion frankly.

"Yes, yes," he interrupted me with a sigh. "You are right; it is all
weak and unsatisfactory. But what is to be done? I haven't studied
properly, and the inexcusable carelessness shows everywhere. Before
working it always seems as if I were capable of eagle flights--it seems
as I could hurl the earth out of her course; but when it comes to
execution one loses strength quickly enough, and is tired."

I began to encourage him, but he motioned with his hand that I should be
silent, rolled up his canvases, and threw himself on the sofa. "If my
patience lasts, I shall make something yet," he muttered in his beard;
"if not--then I shall stay a country lout. Come, let us look after
Assja." We started.

       *     *     *     *     *

The way to the ruin wound round the slope of a wooded valley, at whose
bottom a brook flowed noisily over its pebbles as if it were anxious to
lose itself in the great stream that was shining peacefully behind the
sharply indented mountain side. Gagin called my attention to some
partially lighted spots; in his words the artist certainly spoke, if not
the painter. The river soon appeared. On the summit of the naked rock
rose a square town, black with age but in tolerable preservation, though
it was cleft from top to bottom. Moss-grown walls adjoined this town,
ivy clung here and there, a tangle of briars filled the embrasures and
the shattered arches. A stone foot-walk led to the door that remained
intact. We were already near it when suddenly a girl's figure sped by
us, sprang over the heaps of rubbish, and seated herself on a projection
of the wall directly over the abyss. "There is Assja," cried Gagin. "Is
she mad?"

Through the gate we stepped into a spacious courtyard half filled with
wild apple trees and stinging nettles. It was indeed Assja, who was
sitting on the projection. She looked down at us and laughed, but did
not stir from her place. Gagin threatened her with his finger. I began
to expostulate aloud with her on her recklessness.

"Don't do that," Gagin whispered to me. "Don't exasperate her. You don't
know her. She would be capable of clambering up the town. Look yonder,
rather, and see how ingenious the people hereabouts are."

I looked about me. A thrifty old lady had made herself very comfortable
in a kind of narrow booth made of boards piled up in one corner, and
knitted her stocking, while she occasionally glanced askance at us. She
had beer, cake, and soda-water for tourists. We sat down on a bench and
attacked our heavy tin mugs of cooling beer. Assja still sat motionless;
she had drawn up her feet, and wound her muslin scarf about her head.
Her charming, slender figure showed sharp against the sky, but I could
not look at it without annoyance. Even on the previous day I had seen
something intense, unnatural in her. "Does she want to astonish us?" I
thought. "What for? What a childish freak!" As if she had fathomed my
thought, she cast a quick and piercing glance at me, laughed loudly,
sprang in two bounds from the wall, and going to the old woman, asked
for a glass of water.

"You think that I want to drink it?" she said, turning to her brother.
"No; there are some flowers up there that I must water."

Gagin made no reply, but she scrambled up the ruins glass in hand, and,
stopping from time to time and bending down, with extraordinary
painstaking she let fall some drops of water, which glistened in the
sun. Her movements were full of grace, but I was vexed as before,
although I was forced to admire her lightness and dexterity. In one
perilous spot she uttered a little shriek with design, and then laughed
loudly again. That annoyed me still more.

"The young lady climbs like a goat," mumbled the old woman, and stopped
knitting for a moment.

Meanwhile Assja had emptied her glass and come down, roguishly swaying
to and fro. A strange, imperceptible smile played round her brows, and
nostrils, and lips; half audacious, half merry, the dark eyes were
shining.

"You find my behavior scandalous," her face seemed to say. "Very well. I
know that you admire me."

"Neatly done, Assja; neatly done," said Gagin under his breath.

It seemed as if she felt suddenly ashamed of herself. Her long lashes
fell, and she sat down near us meekly, as if conscious of naughtiness.
Now for the first time I could see her face fairly--the most changeful
that I had ever beheld. For a few moments it was very pale, and took on
a reserved, almost a melancholy expression. Her features seemed larger,
stronger, and more simple. She was perfectly still. We made the tour of
the ruins (Assja followed us), and were very enthusiastic over the view.
Meanwhile dinnertime approached. Gagin paid the old woman, asked for
another glass of beer, and cried, turning to me with a sly look,

"To the health of the lady of your heart!"

"Has he--have you such a lady?" asked Assja suddenly.

"Who hasn't?" replied Gagin.

Assja became thoughtful. Her face assumed yet another expression. The
challenging, almost bold smile returned.

On the way home she laughed more, and her behavior was more whimsical
than ever. She broke for herself a long branch, carried it over her
shoulder like a gun, and bound her scarf about her head. A party of
fair-haired young English dandies met us. As if at a word of command,
they all stood aside to let Assja pass, with a cold glare of
astonishment in their eyes, while she began to sing loudly in mockery.
As soon as we had reached the house she went to her chamber, and
appeared at dinner in a most elaborate dress, with carefully arranged
hair, and wearing gloves. She behaved with great propriety, not to say
stillness, at table, hardly touched her food, and drank water out of a
wineglass. Evidently she wished to appear before me in a new rôle, that
of a conventional and well brought up young lady. Gagin let her alone.
It was easy to see that it had become a habit with him to let her have
her will in all things. At times he looked at her good-naturedly and
shrugged his shoulders slightly, as much as to say, "Be indulgent; she
is only a child." When the meal was ended Assja rose, made us a
courtesy, and taking up her hat, asked Gagin if she might go to see Frau
Luise.

"Since when have you begun to ask permission?" answered Gagin with his
ready smile, but with a little astonishment. "Is the time long to you
with us?"

"No; but yesterday I promised Frau Luise that I would visit her. And
then I think you two would rather be alone. Mr. N." (she pointed to me)
"may have something to tell you."

She went.

"Frau Luise," Gagin began, taking pains to avoid my glance, "is the
widow of a former burgomaster of this place; a good old soul, but rather
narrow-minded. She has taken a great fancy to Assja. It is Assja's
passion to make the acquaintance of people of the lower classes. I have
found that pride is at the bottom of the matter every time. I have
spoiled her thoroughly, you see," he went on after a pause; "but what
was there for me to do? I never could carry a point by firmness with any
one; most of all not with her. It is my duty to be indulgent with her."

I was silent. Gagin gave another direction to the conversation. The more
I learned of him the more he pleased me. I soon understood him. His was
a real Russian character--truth-loving, faithful, simple, but
unfortunately rather sluggish, lacking firmness, and without the inward
fire. Youth did not flame up in him; it burned with a gentle glow. He
was most amiable and sensible; but I could not imagine what he would
become in manhood. He wished to be an artist. Without constant,
absorbing endeavor, no one is an artist. You exhaust yourself, I
thought, looking at his gentle face and listening to the slow cadence of
his voice. No; you will not strain every nerve; you will never succeed
in mastering yourself. And yet it was impossible not to be attracted by
him. My heart was really drawn to him. It may have been four hours that
we talked together, sometimes sitting on the sofa, sometimes walking
quietly up and down before the house; and in these four hours we became
real friends.

The day was at its close, and it was time to go home. Assja had not
returned.

"She is a wild creature," Gagin said. "If you please, I will go back
with you, and we will go to Frau Luise's on the way, and I will ask if
she is still there. The distance is trifling."

"We descended to the town, turned into a crooked and narrow cross
street, and came to a standstill before a house of four stories with two
windows on a floor. The second story projected into the street beyond
the first; the third and fourth reached still further forward than the
second. The whole house, with its old-fashioned carving, its two thick
pillars below, its steep, tiled roof, and the beak-shaped gutter running
out from the eaves, had the appearance of some monstrous, squatting
bird.

"Assja," called Gagin, "are you there?"

A lighted window in the third story was thrown up, and Assja's little
dark head appeared. Behind her peered forth the face of a toothless and
blear-eyed old woman.

"Here I am," answered Assja, coquettishly leaning over the window-sill
on her elbows. "It is exceedingly pleasant here. Catch," she added,
flinging a bit of geranium down to Gagin. "Imagine that I am the lady of
your heart."

Frau Luise laughed.

"N. is going," responded Gagin. "He would like to take leave of you."

"Indeed?" said Assja. "In that case give him my sprig. I am coming home
directly."

She shut the window, and I fancied that she gave Frau Luise a kiss.
Gagin handed me the sprig without a word. Without a word I put it in my
pocket, went to the ferry, and crossed to the other side.

I remember that I went home thinking of nothing definite, but feeling a
certain dull ache at my heart, when suddenly a strong odor, well known
to me, but not usual in Germany, made me stop puzzled. I stood still and
recognized by the roadside a hemp field of moderate size, whose smell
reminded me at once of my native steppes. A mighty homesickness arose in
me. I had a longing to feel Russian air blowing on my cheeks, to have
Russian ground beneath my feet. "What am I doing here? Why am I
wandering about among strangers in a strange land?" I cried aloud, and
the vague uneasiness that weighed on my spirits changed suddenly to a
bitter burning pain. I reached the house in a mood entirely different
from the one of the preceding day. I was strangely excited. I could not
compose myself. A feeling of vexation which I could not explain to
myself possessed me. At last I sat down to think of my faithless widow
(for I devoted the close of every day to official recollections of this
lady), and I took out one of her letters. But this time I did not even
open it. My thoughts had taken another turn; I thought--of Assja. I
remembered that Gagin, in the course of conversation, had spoken of
certain obstacles which would make his return to Russia very difficult.
"Is she then really his sister?" I cried aloud.

I undressed myself, went to bed, and tried to sleep; but an hour
afterward I was sitting up with my elbow on the pillow, and still
thinking of the "capricious maid with her affected laugh." "She has a
form like the little Galatea of Raphael in the Farnese," I said to
myself. "Yes, and she is not his sister."

Meanwhile the widow's letter lay quietly on the floor, bleached by a
moonbeam.

       *     *     *     *     *

However, on the following day I went again to L----. I said to myself
that I wished to visit Gagin, but in truth I was curious to watch Assja,
to see if she would pursue the extravagances of the day previous. I
found them both in the parlor, and wonderful!--was it because I had
thought so much of Russia in the night and the morning?--Assja appeared
to me a real Russian girl--yes, even a very ordinary one, almost like a
servant. She wore a shabby gown; her hair was combed back behind her
ears. She sat quietly by the window, busy with some sewing, sedate and
still as if she never in her life had been otherwise. She hardly spoke,
examined her work from time to time; and her features had an expression
so dull and commonplace that I was involuntarily reminded of our own
Kathinkas and Maschinkas. To complete the resemblance, she began to hum
"My darling little mother." I looked at her sallow, languid face,
thought of yesterday's fantasies, and got suddenly out of temper. The
weather was magnificent. Gagin declared that he was going to sketch from
nature. I asked if he would permit me to accompany him, if it would not
disturb him?

"On the contrary," said he, "you will assist me by your suggestions."

He put on his Vandyk hat and his painting blouse, took his canvas under
his arm, and started. I followed him slowly; Assja remained at home. In
going out Gagin begged her to take care that the soup should not be too
watery. Assja promised to oversee it in the kitchen. Gagin reached a
dell which I already knew, sat down upon a stone, and began to sketch an
old, hollow, wide-branched oak. I lay down in the grass and took out a
book, but my reading did not advance beyond the second page, nor did he
blacken much paper. We chatted a great deal, and, if my memory does not
deceive me, we discoursed very subtly and profoundly about work: what
one should avoid, what strive for, and in what consisted the real merit
of the artists of our day. At last Gagin declared that he was not in the
mood for work, threw himself down beside me, and then for the first time
our youthful talk flowed free, now passionate, now dreamy, now almost
inspired, but always vague--a conversation peculiar to Russians. After
we had talked ourselves tired we started for home, filled with
satisfaction that we had accomplished something, had arrived at some
result. I found Assja precisely as I had left her. Whatever pains I
might take with my scrutiny I could discover no trace of coquetry, no
evidence of a part designedly played. This time it was impossible to
accuse her of oddity. "Aha!" Gagin said; "you have imposed penance and
fasting on yourself." In the evening she gaped several times without
pretence at concealment, and retired early. I also took leave of Gagin
betimes, and having reached home, I gave myself up to no more dreams.
This day ended in sober reflections. But I remember that as I settled
myself to sleep I said aloud, "What a chameleon the girl is!" And after
a moment's thought I added, "And she is certainly not his sister."

       *     *     *     *     *

In this way two whole weeks passed. I visited the Gagins every day.
Assja seemed to shun me. She indulged in no more of those extravagances
which had so astonished me on the first days of our acquaintance. It
seemed to me that she was secretly troubled or perplexed. Neither did
she laugh so much. I observed her with interest.

She spoke French and German indifferently well, but one could see in
everything that she had not been in the hands of women since her
childhood, and the strange, desultory education which she had received
had nothing in common with Gagin's. In spite of the Vandyk hat and the
painter's blouse, the delicate, almost effeminate Russian nobleman was
always apparent in him; but she was not in the least like a noblewoman.
In all her movements there was something unsteady. Here was a graft
lately made, wine not yet fermented. Naturally of a timid and shy
disposition, she yet was annoyed by her own timidity, and in her
vexation she compelled herself to be unconcerned and at her ease, in
which she did not always succeed. Several times I turned the
conversation to her life in Russia, her past. She answered my questions
reluctantly. I learned, however, that she had lived in the country for a
long time before her travels. Once I found her with a book. She was
alone. Her head supported by both hands, the fingers twisted deep in her
hair, she was devouring the words with her eyes.

"Bravo!" I called out to her on entering. "You are very busy."

She raised her head and looked at me with great gravity and earnestness.

"Do you really think that I can do nothing but laugh?" she said, and was
about to withdraw.

I glanced at the title of the book; it was a French novel.

"I can't commend your choice," I said.

"What shall I read then?" she cried. And throwing her book on the table,
she added, "It's better that I fill up my time with nonsense," and with
this she ran out into the garden.

That evening I read "Hermann and Dorothea" aloud to Gagin. At first
Assja occupied herself rather noisily near us, then suddenly ceased and
became attentive, seated herself quietly beside me, and listened to the
reading to the end. On the following day I was again puzzled by her mood
till it occurred to me that she had been seized with a whim to be
womanly and discreet like Dorothea. In a word, she was an enigmatical
creature. Full of conceit and irritable as she was, she attracted me
even while she made me angry. I was more and more convinced that she was
not Gagin's sister. His behavior toward her was not that of a brother;
it was too gentle, too considerate, and at the same time a little
constrained. A singular occurrence seemed, by every token, to confirm my
suspicions.

One evening, when I came to the vineyard where the Gagins lived, I found
the gate locked. Without much thought I went to a broken place which I
had often noticed in the wall, and sprang over. Not far from this place,
and aside from the path, there was a small clump of acacia. I had
reached it, and was on the point of passing it. Suddenly I heard Assja's
voice, the words spoken excitedly and through tears:

"No. I will love no one but you: no, no--you alone and for ever!"

"Listen, Assja. Compose yourself," replied Gagin. "You know that I
believe you." I heard the voices of both in the arbor. I saw both
through the sparse foliage. They were not aware of my presence.

"You--you alone," she repeated, threw herself on his neck, and clinging
to his breast, she kissed him amid violent sobs. "Come, enough," he
said, while he smoothed her hair gently with his hand.

For a moment I stood motionless. Suddenly I recollected myself. Enter
and join them? For nothing in the world! it shot through my brain. With
hasty steps I gained the wall, leaped it, and reached my dwelling almost
on the run. I laughed, rubbed my hands together, and congratulated
myself on the chance which had so unexpectedly confirmed my suspicion
(whose truth I had not doubted for an instant); but my heart was heavy.
"They dissemble well?" I thought. "And for what purpose? Why do they
wish to amuse themselves at my expense? I would not have thought it of
them!" What a disturbing discovery it was!

       *     *     *     *     *

I slept ill, and on the following day I rose early, buckled on my
knapsack, and after telling my landlady not to expect me at night, I
turned my steps toward the mountains, following the stream on which the
town of S---- is built. These mountains are very interesting from a
geological point of view; they are particularly remarkable for the
regularity and purity of their basaltic formations; but I was not bent
on geological investigation. I could give no account to myself of my own
feelings. One thing, however, was clear: I had not the least desire to
see the Gagins. I insisted to myself that the only ground of my sudden
distaste for their society lay in vexation at their falseness.

What had been the necessity of calling themselves brother and sister? I
resolutely avoided thinking of them, loitered idly among the hills and
valleys, spent much time in village inns in friendly talk with the
landlord and his guests, or lay on a flat or sunny rock in the lovely
weather, and watched the clouds float over. In this way three days
passed not unpleasantly, though from time to time I had a stifled
feeling at my heart. This quiet nature accorded perfectly with my state
of mind. I gave myself up completely to the chance of the moment and the
impressions that it brought to me; following one another without haste,
they flooded my soul, and left finally a single feeling where everything
which I had seen or heard or experienced during these three days was
blended--everything: the faint resinous smell of the woods, cry and
tapping of the woodpeckers, the continual murmur of the clear brooks
with spotted trout in their sandy shallows, the not too bold outlines of
the mountains, gray rock, the friendly villages with venerable churches
and trees, storks in the meadows, snug mills with wheels merrily
turning, the honest faces of the country people with their blue smocks
and gray stockings, the slow creaking wagons and well-fed horses, or
sometimes a yoke of oxen, long-haired lads strolling along the cleanly
kept paths under apple and pear trees. To this day I remember with
pleasure the impressions of that time. I greet you, little nook of
modest ground, with your modest content, with your signs everywhere
visible of busy hands, of labor constant if not severe--greetings to you
and peace.

At the end of the third day I returned to S----. I have forgotten to say
that in my vexation with the Gagins, I had endeavored to reinstate the
image of my hard-hearted widow. But I remember, as I began to think of
her, I saw before me a little peasant girl, about five years old, out of
whose round little face a pair of great innocent eyes were regarding me
curiously. The look was so childlike, so confiding, a kind of shame
swept over me. I could not continue a lie before that gaze, and at once
and for ever I said good-by to my early flame.

I found a note from Gagin waiting for me. My sudden whim astonished him.
He made me some reproaches that I had not taken him with me, and begged
me to come to him as soon as I should return. Distrustfully I read this
note, yet the following day found me at L----.

       *     *     *     *     *

Gagin's reception was friendly. He overwhelmed me with affectionate
reproaches; but no sooner had Assja caught sight of me than she broke
into loud laughter, designedly, it seemed, and without the least cause,
and ran away precipitately. Gagin lost his temper, grumbled at her for a
crazy girl, and begged me to excuse her. I must confess that I was very
cross with Assja. I was uncomfortable before, and now this unnatural
laughter and ridiculous behavior must be added. However, I acted as if I
had observed nothing, and detailed to Gagin all the incidents of my
little journey. He told me what he had done during my absence. But the
conversation went lame. Assja kept running in and out. Finally I
declared that I had some pressing work, and that it was time for me to
be at home. Gagin tried to detain me at first, then looking keenly at
me, he begged permission to accompany me. In the hall Assja approached
me suddenly, and held out her hand to me. I gave her fingers an almost
imperceptible pressure, and bade her good-by carelessly. We crossed the
Rhine together, strolled to my favorite oak tree near the little shrine
to the Virgin, and sat down on a bench to enjoy the landscape. There a
remarkable conversation took place between us.

At first we only spoke in the briefest words, then fell into silence and
fixed our eyes on the shining river.

"Tell me," Gagin began suddenly, with his accustomed smile, "what is
your opinion of Assja? She must appear a little singular to you. Not
so?"

"Yes," I answered, not without a certain constraint. I had not expected
him to speak of her.

"One must learn to know her well to form a judgment upon her," he
continued. "She has a very good heart, but a wild head. It is hard to
live quietly with her. However, it is not her fault, and if you knew her
history----"

"Her history!" I interrupted him. "Isn't she then your----" Gagin looked
at me.

"Is it possible that you have doubted that she was my sister? No," he
went on, without heeding my confusion. "She is; at least she is my
father's daughter. Listen to me. I have confidence in you, and I will
tell you all about her.

"My father was a very honest, sensible, cultivated, and unfortunate man.
Fate had no harder blows for him than for others, but he could not bear
the first one that he felt from her. He had married early--a love match;
his wife, my mother, soon died, and I was left a six months' old baby.
My father took me to his country estates, and for twelve whole years he
lived there in absolute seclusion. He himself took charge of my
education, and would never have been separated from me if my uncle, his
brother, had not come to visit us in our country house. This uncle lived
in Petersburg, where he held a rather important post. He persuaded my
father, who could not be induced to quit his home under any
consideration, to trust me to his care. He showed his brother what an
injury it was to a boy of my age to live in such complete isolation, and
that, with a companion always melancholy and silent as my father, I
should inevitably remain behind boys of my age--yes, that my character
might easily be endangered by such a life. For a long time my father
resisted his brother's arguments, but at last he yielded. I cried at
parting from my father, whom I loved, though I had never seen a smile on
his face; but Petersburg once reached, our gloomy and silent nest was
soon forgotten. I went to school, and was afterward placed in a regiment
of the Guards. Every year I spent some weeks at our country house, and
with every year I found my father more melancholy, more reserved, and
depressed to an alarming degree. He went to church daily, and had almost
given up speech. On one of my visits--I was then in my twentieth year--I
saw for the first time about the house a little lean, black-eyed girl,
who might have been about ten years old. It was Assja. My father said
she was an orphan whose care he had undertaken: those were his own
words. I gave her no further attention. She was as wild, quick, and shy
as a little animal, and if I entered my father's favorite room, a great
dismal chamber in which my mother had died, and which had to be lighted
even by day, she always slunk out of sight behind my father's
old-fashioned easy chair, or hid behind the bookcase. It happened that
for the three or four years following I was prevented by my service from
visiting our estate. Every month I received a short letter from my
father, in which Assja was spoken of seldom and always incidentally. My
father was already past his fiftieth year, but looked still a young man.
Imagine my distress then when I suddenly received a perfectly unexpected
letter from our steward, announcing the fatal illness of my father, and
begging me urgently to come home as quickly as possible if I wished to
see him alive. I rushed headlong home, and found my father, though in
the last agony. My presence seemed the greatest joy to him; he clasped
me in his wasted arms, turned on me his gaze half doubtful, half
imploring, and after he had obtained from me a promise that I would
carry out his last wishes, he ordered his old servant to fetch Assja.
The old man brought her. She could hardly support herself on her feet,
and was trembling in every limb.

"'Now take her,' said my father to me with earnestness. 'I bequeathe to
you my daughter, your sister. You will hear everything from Jacob,' he
added, while he pointed to his valet.

"Assja burst out sobbing, and threw herself on the bed. Half an hour
afterward my father was dead.

"I learned the following story: Assja was the daughter of my father and
a former waiting maid of my mother's, named Tatiana. She rose distinct
to my remembrance, this Tatiana, with her tall, slender figure, her
serious face, regular features, her dark and earnest eyes. She had the
reputation of a proud, unapproachable girl. As nearly as I could learn
from Jacob's reserved and respectful story, my father had entered into
close relations with her some years after my mother's death. At that
time Tatiana was not in her master's house, but living with a married
sister, the dairywoman, in a separate hut. My father became very much
attached to her, and wished to marry her after my departure, but she
herself refused this in spite of his entreaties.

"'The departed Tatiana Vlassievna'--so Jacob told me, standing against
the door, with his hands crossed behind his back--'was in all things
very thoughtful, and would not lower your father. "A fine wife I should
be for you--a real lady wife!" she said to him--in my presence she has
said it.' Tatiana never would come back to the house, but remained,
together with Assja, living with her sister as before. As a child I had
often seen Tatiana at church on saint days. She stood among the
servants, usually near a window. She wore a dark cloth wound about her
head and a yellow shawl on her shoulders--the strong outline of her face
clear against the transparent pane; and she prayed silently and humbly,
bowing very low after the old fashion. When my uncle took me away Assja
was just two; when she lost her mother, just nine years old.

"Immediately after Tatiana's death my father took Assja home to himself.
He had already expressed a wish to have her with him, but Tatiana had
refused it. You can imagine what Assja must have felt when she was taken
into the master's house. To this day she has not forgotten the hour when
for the first time they dressed her in a silk dress and kissed her
little hand. In her mother's lifetime she had been brought up with great
strictness: my father left her without a single restraint. He was her
instructor; except him, she saw no one. He did not spoil her; at least
he did not follow her about like a nursemaid, but he loved her fondly,
and refused her nothing. He was conscious of guilt toward her. Assja
soon discovered that she was the principal person in the household. She
knew the master was her father, but at the same time she began to
understand her equivocal position. Wilfulness and distrust were
developed to an extreme degree in her. Bad manners were contracted;
simplicity vanished. She wished (she herself told me) to compel the
whole world to forget her origin. She was ashamed of her mother, was
ashamed of being ashamed, and was in turn proud of her. You see that she
knew and knows still many things that should not be known at her age.
But does the blame rest with her? Youth was strong in her: her blood
flowed hot, and no hand near to guide her--the fullest independence in
everything! Is such a fate easily borne? She would not be inferior to
other girls. She rushed headlong into study. But what good could result
from it? The life, lawlessly begun, seemed likely to develop lawlessly.
But the heart remained true and the reason sound.

"And so I found myself, a young fellow of twenty, weighted with the care
of a thirteen-year old girl! In the first days after my father's death
my voice caused her a feeling of feverish horror, my caresses made her
sad, and only by degrees and after a long time did she become accustomed
to me. And later, when she had gained security that I really considered
her my sister, and that I loved her as a sister, she attached herself
passionately to me: with her there is no half feeling.

"I brought her to Petersburg. Hard as it was to leave her--I could not
live with her in any case--I placed her at one of the best
boarding-schools. Assja agreed to the necessity of our separation, but
it cost her a sickness which came near to being a fatal one. Little by
little she reconciled herself, and she staid four years in this
establishment. But contrary to my expectations, she remained almost her
old self. The principal of the school often complained to me. 'I cannot
punish her,' she would say; 'and I can do nothing by kindness.' Assja
comprehended everything with great quickness, learned
wonderfully--better than all; but it was utterly impossible to bring her
under the common rule. She rebelled; was sulky. I could not blame her
much. In her position she must keep herself at the service of every one,
or avoid every one. Only one of all her companions was intimate with
her--an insignificant, silent, and poor girl. The other young girls with
whom she was associated, of good families for the most part, did not
like her, and taunted and jibed her whenever they could find
opportunity. Assja was not behind them by a hair's breadth. Once, in the
hour for religious instruction, the teacher came to speak of the idea of
vice. 'Sycophancy and cowardice,' said Assja aloud, 'are the meanest
vices.' In a word, she continued to walk in her own way, only her
manners improved somewhat; but even in this respect, I fancy, she has
made no wonderful advance.

"She had reached her seventeenth year. It was useless to keep her longer
at school. I found myself in great perplexity. All of a sudden a happy
thought struck me: to quit the service, and to travel with Assja for a
year or two. Done as soon as thought. So here are we both now on the
banks of the Rhine: I occupied in learning to paint, she following out
her whims in her usual way. But now I must hope that you will not pass
too harsh judgment upon her; for however much she may insist that
everything is indifferent to her, she does care very much for the
opinion of others, and especially for your own."

And Gagin smiled again his gentle smile. I wrung his hand.

"That is how it stands now," Gagin continued. "But I have my hands full
with her. A real firebrand, that girl! Up to this time no one has ever
pleased her; but alas if ever she falls in love! At times I do not know
what to do with her. Lately she took it into her head to declare that I
was growing cold to her, but that she loved only me, and would love only
me her life long. And how she sobbed!"

"So that was it," I said to myself, and bit my lip. "But tell me," I
asked Gagin, "now that our hearts are open, has really no one ever
caught her fancy? Surely she must have seen many young men in
Petersburg?"

"And they are all absolutely distasteful to her. No. Assja is seeking a
hero--an entirely extraordinary man, or else an artistic shepherd among
his flock. But enough of this gossip. I am detaining you," he added as
he rose.

"Come," I said, "let us go back. I don't care to go home."

"And your work?"

I made no reply. Gagin laughed good-naturedly, and we returned to L----.
As the well-known vineyard and the little white house on the hillside
came in sight, my heart was warmed in a curious way--yes, that was
it--warmed and soothed as if, unknown to me, some one had poured some
healing drops there. Gagin's story had made me cheerful.

Assja met us at the threshold. I had expected to find her still
laughing, but she stepped forward to us, pale, silent, and with eyes
down cast.

"Here he is again," Gagin said to her, "and be sure of this: it was his
own wish to come back."

Assja looked at me inquiringly. I held out my hand to her, and this time
I grasped tightly her cold and slender fingers. I felt deep pity for
her. Now I understood much that had before disturbed me in her: her
inner restlessness, her offensive manner, her endeavor to show herself
other than she was--all was clear to me. I had had a glimpse into this
soul. A constant weight oppressed it. Fearfully the untrained will
fought and struggled, yet her whole being was striving after truth. Now
I understood why this singular girl had attracted me: it was not only
the charm which invested her whole body; it was her soul which drew me.

Gagin began to fumble among his sketches. I asked Assja to come for a
walk with me through the vineyard. She gave a ready, almost humble
assent. We climbed the hill about half way, and stopped on a broad
plateau.

"And you felt no _ennui_ without us?" Assja began.

"Did you, then, feel any in my absence?" I asked.

Assja looked at me sideways.

"Yes," she replied. "Is it pleasant in the mountains?" she immediately
continued. "Are they high? Higher than the clouds? Tell me what you have
seen. You have told my brother, but I have heard nothing about it."

"Why did you go away?" I interrupted her.

"I went--because---- Now I will not go away," she added in a gentle,
confiding tone. "You were cross today."

"I?"

"You."

"But why? I beg you----"

"I don't know; but you were cross, and went away cross. It was very
unpleasant to me to have you go away in that manner, and I am glad that
you have come back."

"I am equally glad," I replied.

Assja moved her shoulders slightly, one after the other, as children do
when they are in good humor.

"Oh, I am famous at guessing," she went on. "Long ago my father had only
to cough, and I knew instantly whether he was pleased with me or not."

Till this time Assja had never spoken to me of her father. That struck
me.

"You loved your father very much?" I asked, and I felt to my great
annoyance that I was blushing.

She did not answer, but she also blushed. We were both silent. In the
distance a steamboat with its trailing smoke was descending the Rhine:
our looks followed it.

"Why do you not tell me something?" Assja said half aloud.

"Why did you laugh to-day when you saw me coming?" I asked her.

"I do not know myself. Sometimes I want to cry, and yet must laugh. You
must not judge me by what I do. Ah, by the way, what a wonderful story
it is about the Lorelei. Isn't it her rock that we see yonder? They say
that at first she drew every one else beneath the water, but after she
was acquainted with love, she cast herself in. The story pleases me.
Frau Luise tells me all sorts of fairy stories. Frau Luise has a black
cat with yellow eyes----"

Assja raised her head and threw back her hair.

"Ah, how comfortable I feel!" she said.

At this moment broken, monotonous tones fell on our ears. Hundreds of
voices in unison repeated a hymn with measured pauses. A troop of
pilgrims was moving along the way beneath us with flags and crosses.

"I would like to go with them!" cried Assja, while she listened to the
sound of the voices, gradually dying away.

"Are you so devout?"

"I would like to go somewhere far off, to pray, to accomplish something
difficult," she added. "The days hurry by, life will come to an end, and
what have we done?"

"You are ambitious," I said. "You do not wish to live in vain. You would
like to leave behind some trace of your existence."

"Would it be impossible?"

"Impossible," I had nearly repeated. I looked into her clear eyes and
only said:

"Well, try it."

"Tell me," Assja began after a little silence, while flying shadows
followed each other across her face, which had grown pale again--"did
that lady please you very much? You remember, my brother drank to your
health once, in the ruins; it was the day after we had made
acquaintance."

I laughed aloud.

"It was a jest of your brother's; no lady has pleased me, at least no
one now pleases me."

"What is it that pleases you in women?" asked Assja, tossing back her
head in childish curiosity.

"What a singular question!" I exclaimed.

Assja was a little disturbed.

"I should not have asked the question--not so? Forgive me. I am used to
chatter about everything that goes through my head. That is why I am
afraid to talk."

"Only talk, for heaven's sake! Don't be afraid," I broke in. "I am so
glad that at last you cease to be shy." Assja lowered her eyes and
laughed; a still, gentle laughter that I did not recognize as hers.

"Well, tell me something then," she said, while she smoothed her dress
and tucked it about her feet as if disposing herself to sit for a long
while--"tell me something, or read something aloud, as that time when
you read to us out of 'Onegin.'"

She grew suddenly thoughtful.

  Where now in green boughs' shadow
  The cross rests on my mother's grave--

she said to herself in a low voice.

"In Pushkin the verse is somewhat different," I ventured.[J]

[Footnote J: In Pushkin it reads, "On my nurse's grave."]

"I would have liked to be Pushkin's Tatiana," she continued, still lost
in thought. "Tell me something," she cried suddenly, with vivacity.

But I could find nothing to say. I looked at her as she sat there,
gentle and peaceful, surrounded with the clear sunshine. Everything
about us glowed with happiness; the sky, the earth, the water. It seemed
as if the very air was bathed in a splendor.

"Look, how beautiful!" I said, involuntarily lowering my voice.

"Yes, beautiful," she answered as gently, without looking at me. "If we
were both birds, we would fly high up there--would soar. We would sink
deep into that blue. But we are no birds."

"We may have wings though," I answered.

"How?"

"In time you will discover. There are feelings that swing us off from
the earth. Don't fear; you will have wings."

"Have you had them then?"

"How shall I say? I believe that I have never flown till now."

Assja fell again into thought. I bent toward her a little.

"Can you waltz?" she asked unexpectedly.

"Yes, I can," I answered, somewhat surprised.

"Then come, come--I will ask my brother to play a waltz for us--we will
imagine that we are flying, that our wings have grown."

She ran to the house. I hastened after her, and in a few moments we were
whirling round the narrow room to the music of a charming waltz. Assja
danced exceedingly well, with lightness and skill. Something soft and
feminine came suddenly into her childish, earnest face. For a long time
afterward my hand felt the contact of her delicate form, for a long time
I seemed to feel her close, quickened breathing, and to see before me
the dark, fixed, half-closed eyes, and the animated pale face with its
wreathing hair.

       *     *     *     *     *

This whole day passed so that one could not have wished it better. We
were merry as children. Assja was very lovable and natural. It was a
pleasure for Gagin to see her. It was late when I went away. In the
middle of the Rhine I told the ferryman to leave the boat to the
current. The old man drew in his oars and the majestic stream bore us
onward. While I looked about me and listened, and called forgotten
things to memory, I felt a sense of unrest in my heart. I turned my eyes
to the heavens, but in the heavens was no rest; with its glittering host
of stars it was in steady motion, revolving, trembling. I bent to the
river, but there also in the dark, cool depths the stars were dancing
and flickering; everywhere the restless spirit of life met me, and the
restlessness in my own heart grew stronger. I leaned over the side of
the boat. The murmuring of the breeze in my ears, the low splash of the
water against the stern of the boat, excited me, and the freshness of
the waves did not cool me. Somewhere on the shore a nightingale began
her song, and this music worked upon me like a sweet poison. Tears
filled my eyes, but not the tears of an indefinite rapture. What I
experienced was not the vague feeling of boundless longing in which it
seems as if the heart could embrace everything: no. In me arose a
burning desire for happiness. Only as yet I did not dare call this
happiness by its real name. But bliss--bliss to overflowing was what I
longed for. The boat drifted further and further, and the old ferryman
sat bowed over his oars and fast asleep.

       *     *     *     *     *

On my way to the Gagins the following day I did not ask myself if I was
in love with Assja, but I thought of her continually; her destiny
absorbed me, and I rejoiced over our unhoped-for meeting. I felt that I
had known her only since yesterday. Until then she had always avoided
me. And now that she had finally admitted me to her friendship, in what
a bewitching light did her image appear to me; what a mysterious charm
streamed from it to me.

Hastily I sprang up the well-known path, straining my eyes for a glimpse
of the little white house in the distance. I did not think of the
future; I did not think even of the morrow; but my heart was light in
me.

Assja blushed as I entered the room. I observed that she had again
dressed herself with great care, but the expression of her face did not
correspond with her finery; it was melancholy. And I had come so happily
disposed! I believe that she was inclined to run away in her usual
fashion, but forcibly compelled herself to remain. I found Gagin in that
peculiar mood of artistic enthusiasm which catches dilettanti by
surprise whenever they imagine themselves about to take nature by storm,
as they express it. He stood with hair disordered, and bedaubed with
paint, before a fresh canvas, drawing madly. Furiously he nodded to me,
stepped backward, half closed his eyes, and then precipitated himself
again upon his work. I did not like to disturb him, and sat down beside
Assja. Slowly her dark eyes turned on me.

"You are not as you were yesterday," I ventured, after I had made some
vain attempts to bring a smile to her lips.

"No, I am not," she replied, with a slow, suppressed voice. "But that is
nothing. I did not sleep well. I was thinking the whole night."

"About what?"

"Oh, I thought about many things. It has been my habit from childhood,
even when I was living with my mother."

She spoke this with a certain emphasis, and repeated it.

"When I was living with my mother I--I wondered why no one can know
beforehand what is to happen to him. Sometimes one sees a misfortune
coming, and yet cannot turn away from it; and why cannot one always say
boldly the truth? Then I thought that I do not know anything, and that I
must learn. I must be educated over again. I have been very badly
brought up. I do not know how to play the piano, I cannot draw, I sew
dreadfully; I have no capacity; I must be very tiresome."

"You are unjust to yourself," I answered. "You have read much, you are
cultivated, and with your intellect----"

"Have I an intellect?" she asked with such naïve curiosity that I could
not help laughing. She did not laugh.

"Brother, have I an intellect?" she asked Gagin.

He made her no answer, but continued his work, busily laying on his
colors, and with one arm flourished in the air.

"Sometimes I hardly know myself what goes through my head," Assja went
on with the same thoughtful expression. "At certain times I am actually
afraid of myself. Ah, I wish---- Is it really true that women ought not
to read much?"

"It is not necessary that they should read much, but----"

"Will you tell me what to read? Will you tell me what to do? I will do
everything that you tell me," she said, turning to me with an innocent
confidence.

I did not readily find any answer to make.

"The time with me will not seem long to you?"

"How can you think so!" I said.

"Well, I thank you," cried Assja, "but I thought you might be _ennuyé_."

And her little hot hand grasped
mine tightly.

"N.!" cried Gagin at this moment, "isn't this background too dark?"

I went over to him. Assja rose and left the room.

       *     *     *     *     *

An hour afterward she returned, stood in the doorway, and beckoned to
me.

"Listen," she said. "Would you be sorry if I died?"

"What ideas you have to-day!" I exclaimed.

"I imagine that I shall die soon. Sometimes it seems to me as if
everything about me was taking leave of me. It is better to die than to
live as---- Ah, don't look at me so. Indeed I am not a hypocrite. I
shall be afraid of you again."

"Have you ever been afraid of me?"

"If I am unlike other people, the fault is not mine," she answered.
"Already, you see, I cannot laugh any more."

She was melancholy and depressed until evening. Something was passing in
her that I could not understand. Her eyes often rested on me, and every
time they did so I felt my heart chilled by their strange expression.
She was quiet--and yet whenever I looked at her it seemed to me that I
must beg her to be calm. Her appearance fascinated me; I found the
greatest charm in her pale features, in her slow, aimless movements; but
she fancied--I do not know why--that I was in ill humor.

"Listen," she said to me a little while before my departure. "The
thought haunts me that you think me frivolous. In future you must
believe everything that I tell you, and you must be frank with me. I
will always tell you the truth, I give you my word of honor."

This "word of honor" made me laugh.

"Oh, do not laugh," she broke in with eagerness, "or else I must say to
you to-day what you said to me yesterday: 'Why do you laugh so much?'"
And after a short silence she continued: "Do you remember, yesterday we
were talking of wings? My wings are grown--but where shall I fly?"

"What are you saying!" I replied. "To you all ways are open."

Assja looked in my eyes long and keenly.

"You have a bad opinion of me today," she said, and drew her eyebrows
together.

"I have a bad opinion? Of you!"

"What is the matter with you two to-day?" Gagin interrupted me. "Shall I
play a waltz for you as I did yesterday?"

"No, no," exclaimed Assja, clasping her hands together--"not for the
world to-day."

"I won't insist--be easy."

"Not for the world," she repeated, and her cheeks grew pale.

       *     *     *     *     *

Does she love me? I thought, as I came to the Rhine, whose waves rolled
swiftly by.

Does she love me? I asked myself when I awoke the next morning. I did
not wish to look into my own heart. I felt that her image--the image of
the "girl with the bold laugh"--had impressed itself upon my soul, and
that I could not easily get rid of it. I went to L---- and remained there
the whole day; but I had only one glimpse of Assja. She was not well;
her head ached. She came down stairs for a few moments with her head
bound up, her eyes half closed, pale and weak; she smiled feebly, said,
"It will pass; it is nothing; everything passes, does it not?" and went
away. I was depressed and had a painful sense of blankness, but I would
not go home till very late, without, however, seeing her again.

I spent the next day like a man walking in his sleep. I tried to work,
but could not; then I tried to be absolutely idle, and to think of
nothing; but neither did that succeed. I strolled about the town,
returned home, and went out again.

"Are you Mr. N.?" said suddenly the voice of a child behind me. I
turned. A little boy was standing before me. "From Miss Annette," and
handed me a note.

I opened it, and recognized Assja's irregular and scrawling handwriting.
"I must see you," she wrote. "Come to-day at four o'clock to the stone
chapel on the way to the ruins. Something unexpected has happened. For
heaven's sake, come. You shall know everything. Say to the bearer,
'yes.'"

"Any answer?" the boy asked me.

"Say 'yes,'" I replied. The boy ran off.

       *     *     *     *     *

When I had reached my room I sat down and fell into deep thought. My
heart beat forcibly. I read Assja's note several times over. I looked at
the clock; it was not yet midday.

The door opened: Gagin walked in.

His face was gloomy. He seized my hand and shook it warmly. Apparently
he was very much excited.

"What is the matter?" I asked him.

Gagin took a chair and drew it near mine. "Four days ago," he began with
a forced smile, and stammering a little, "I amazed you with a
confidence; and to-day I shall amaze you even more. With any other I
probably should not--so plainly. But you are a man of honor; you're my
friend, are you not? Well, here then; my sister Assja loves you."

I started up from my chair.

"You say--your sister----"

"Yes, yes," Gagin interrupted me. "I tell you she has lost her senses
and will make me lose mine, moreover. Happily she is not used to lying
and has great trust in me. Oh, what a soul the girl has! But she will
surely do herself a mischief."

"You must be mistaken," I said.

"No, I'm not. Yesterday, you know, she staid in bed nearly all day; she
ate nothing: to be sure she complained of nothing. She never complains.
I was not uneasy, although toward evening she grew feverish. But at two
o'clock this morning our landlady roused me. 'Come to your sister,' said
she. 'There is something wrong with her.' I hastened to Assja, and found
her not yet undressed, very feverish, in tears: her head was burning
hot, her teeth chattered. 'What's the matter?' I asked. 'Are you sick?'
She threw herself upon my neck, and insisted that I should take her away
from there as speedily as possible if I wished her to remain alive. I
could make nothing of it--tried to pacify her. Her sobs increased, and
suddenly among her sobs I heard--well, in one word, I discovered that
she loves you. I assure you, neither of us, being reasonable men, can
have the smallest idea of the impetuosity of her feelings and the
incredible violence with which she expresses them; it is as sudden and
as inevitable as a thunder storm. You are a delightful fellow," Gagin
continued, "But I must confess that I do not see why she has fallen in
love with you. She believes that she has loved you from the first moment
she saw you. She was crying lately on that account, even when she was
declaring that she loved nobody but me. She imagines that you despise
her; she fancies that you know her origin. She asked me if I had told
you the story of her life. I naturally denied it, but it is astonishing
how keen she is. She wishes only one thing: to go away: immediately
away. I staid with her till morning. She wrung a promise from me that we
would leave here to-morrow, and then at last she fell asleep. I thought
it over and over, and decided--to talk with you. Assja is right, in my
opinion. It is best that we should both leave this place. I should have
taken her away to-day if an idea that has got into my head didn't
prevent it. Perhaps--who can tell?--my sister pleases you? If this
should be the case, why should I take her away? So I determined to put
shame aside. Besides, I have myself noticed--so I decided--from your own
mouth to learn----" Poor Gagin became hopelessly confused. "Pray excuse
me," he added. "I am inexperienced in such matters."

I seized his hand.

"You wish to know whether your sister pleases me? Yes, she pleases me,"
I said in a steady voice. Gagin looked at me.

"But," he said with an effort, "you don't want to marry her?"

"How can I answer such a question? Think, yourself, how could I at this
moment----"

"I know, I know," Gagin interrupted me. "I have not the least right to
expect an answer from you, and my question was improper--to the last
degree. But what was I to do? One cannot play with fire. You do not know
Assja. It would be possible for her to drown herself--to run away, to
seek an interview with you. Any other girl would know how to conceal
everything and to wait opportunities--but not she. This is her first
experience. That is the worst of it! If you had seen her as she lay
sobbing at my feet, you would share my anxiety."

I became thoughtful. Gagin's expression, "seek an interview with you,"
sank into my heart. It seemed abominable not to answer his confidence
with confidence as free.

"Yes," I said at last. "You are right. An hour ago I received a note
from your sister. Here it is."

Gagin took the note, read it hurriedly, and let his hands fall on his
knees. The expression of his features was ludicrous enough, but I was in
no mood for laughter.

"You're a man of honor. I repeat it," he said. "But what is to be done
now? What! She wishes to hurry away from here, yet she writes to you and
reproaches herself for her own want of foresight. And when can she have
written this? What does she want of you?"

I succeeded in calming him, and we began to talk, as coolly as we could,
about what we might have to do.

At last we decided as follows: To guard against any desperate step on
her part, I was to meet Assja at the appointed place, and have a fair
explanation with her. Gagin pledged himself to remain at home and to
avoid all appearance of knowing about the note. In the evening we agreed
to meet again. "I have full confidence in you," said Gagin, and pressed
my hand strongly. "Spare Assja and myself. But we shall leave
to-morrow," he added as he rose, "for you will not marry Assja."

"Give me time till evening," I said.

"So be it. But you will not marry her."

He went away. I threw myself on the sofa and shut my eyes. My head spun
round like a top. Too many emotions came crowding upon me. Gagin's
frankness annoyed me, and I was angry with Assja. Her love distressed
and delighted me at once. I could not understand how she could betray
herself to her brother. The necessity of a hasty, an instantaneous
decision tormented me. "Marry a seventeen-year-old girl of such a
disposition! How can I do it?" I said, getting up from my seat.

       *     *     *     *     *

I crossed the Rhine at the appointed hour, and the first face that met
me on the opposite shore was that of the same boy who had come to me in
the morning. He seemed to be waiting for me.

"From Miss Annette," he said, and gave me another letter. Assja wrote to
appoint another place for our meeting. In half an hour I was to come,
not to the chapel, but to the house of Frau Luise, knock at the door,
and ascend to the third story.

"'Yes' again?" the boy asked me.

"Yes," I answered, and walked along the bank of the river. There was not
time to return to my house, and I had no inclination to stroll about the
streets. Just beyond the limits of the village there was a little garden
with a covered bowling alley and tables for beer drinkers. I entered it.
A few middle-aged men were playing ninepins. The balls rolled noisily,
and from time to time I caught expressions of applause. A pretty girl,
with eyelids reddened by crying, brought me a glass of beer. I looked
her in the face. She turned hastily away and disappeared.

"Yes, yes," said a fat and ruddy-cheeked man who was sitting near me.
"Our little Nancy is in great trouble to-day. Her lover is gone with the
conscripts." I looked after her. She had retired to a corner and buried
her face in her hands. One after another the tears trickled through her
fingers. Some one called for beer. She brought it, and went back to her
place. Her grief reacted upon me. I began to think of the interview
before me; but I thought of it with anxiety, not with joy. I did not go
light-hearted to the rendezvous. No joyful exchange of mutual love was
before me; I had a promise to redeem, a hard duty to perform. "There is
no jesting possible with her"--this expression of Gagin's pierced my
soul like an arrow. And was not this the very happiness for which I had
longed four days ago, in the little boat which the waves bore onward?
Now it seemed to be possible--but I wavered, I thrust it from me; I must
put it away from me. The very unexpectedness of it confused me. Assja
herself, with her impetuosity, her past history, her education--this
charming but singular being--let me confess it--inspired me with fear.
For a long time I gave myself up to these conflicting feelings. The
deferred tryst was at hand. "I cannot marry her," I decided at last,
"and she shall not know that I love her."

I rose, and after I had pressed a thaler in poor Nancy's hand (for which
she did not even thank me) I went straight to Frau Luise's house.
Already the shadow of dusk was in the air, and above the darkening
streets a narrow streak, the reflection of the sunset, reddened in the
sky. I knocked lightly at the door. It was opened instantly. I stepped
across the threshold and found myself suddenly in darkness.

"This way!" whispered an old woman's voice. "Some one is waiting for
you."

I advanced a couple of steps, stumbling. A skinny hand clutched mine.

"Is it you, Frau Luise?" I asked.

"Yes," the same voice answered. "Yes, it is I, my handsome young
gentleman." The old woman led me up one steep staircase and stopped at
the bottom of a second. By the dull light which came in through a little
window I recognized the wrinkled visage of the burgomaster's widow. A
hateful, sly smile distorted her shrunken lips and half closed the
little bleared eyes. She pointed out a small door to me. I opened it
with a hand that trembled, and shut it again behind me.

       *     *     *     *     *

It was nearly dark in the little room which I entered, and at first I
did not discover Assja. Wrapped in a great cloak, she was sitting in a
chair by the window, with her head averted and almost hidden, like a
frightened bird. Her breath came quickly, and she was trembling in every
limb. I felt an inexpressible pity for her. I approached her; she turned
her head away still more.

"Anna Nicolaevna!" I addressed her.

She started suddenly as if she wished to look at me, but dared not. I
took her hand. It was cold, and lay in mine like a dead thing.

"I wished," Assja began, and tried to smile, but her pallid lips would
not obey her--"I wanted--no, I cannot," she said, and was silent. And in
truth her voice broke at every word.

I sat down beside her.

"Anna Nicolaevna!" I repeated, and again found nothing further to say.

There was a silence. I still held her hand and looked at her. She was in
the same constrained attitude as before: breathed heavily, and bit her
under lip in order to keep back her tears. My eyes were fixed on her.
There was something touchingly helpless in her shy immobility. It seemed
as if she had just been able to reach the chair, and had fallen there.
My heart overflowed.

"Assja!" I whispered, almost inaudibly.

Slowly she raised her eyes to mine. Oh, the glance of a woman who loves!
Who shall describe it? Her eyes expressed entreaty, trust, questioning,
surrender. I could not withstand their magic. A burning fire thrilled me
like the prick of red-hot needles. I bent down and pressed my lips to
her hand.

A little hurried sound as of a broken sob fell on my ear, and I felt on
my hair the tender touch of a hand that trembled like a leaf. I raised
my head, and looked in her face. The expression of fear was gone from
her features. Her glance swept past me into the room. Her lips were a
little apart, her forehead white as marble, and the hair pushed off as
if the wind had blown it back. I forgot everything; I drew her toward
me; willingly her hand obeyed, and her whole body followed; the shawl
slipped from her shoulders, and her head bowed silently to my breast and
laid itself against my burning lips.

"Yours!" she whispered faintly.

Already my arm was about her, when suddenly, like a gleam of lightning,
the thought of Gagin flashed through my brain. "What are we doing?" I
cried, and moved roughly away. "Your brother knows all--he knows that we
are here together."

Assja sank into her chair.

"Yes," I went on, while I rose and went over to the other side of the
room. "Your brother knows everything. I had to tell him everything."

"You had to?" she stammered unintelligibly. She could not come to
herself, and only half comprehended me.

"Yes, yes," I repeated with a certain bitterness, "and you are to blame
for it--you alone. Why did you betray your secret? Who compelled you to
tell your brother? He himself was with me to-day, and told me of your
conversation with him."

I avoided looking at Assja, and went up and down the room with great
strides. "Now everything is lost--everything, everything."

Assja was about to get up from her chair.

"Oh, sit still," I cried; "sit still, I beg you. You have to do with a
man of honor--yes, with a man of honor. But in Heaven's name what
disturbed you so? Have you seen any change in me? But it was impossible
for me to conceal it from your brother when he made me a visit to-day."

"What am I saying?" I thought to myself, and the idea that I should be a
base hypocrite, that Gagin knew of this meeting, that everything had
been talked over, twisted and spoiled, maddened me.

"I did not call my brother," Assja said, in a frightened, harsh voice.
"He came of his own will."

"Only see what you have done," I went on. "Now you want to go away."

"Yes, I must go," she said in a whisper, "and I only asked you to come
here that I might take leave of you."

"And do you think," I retorted, "that it is easy for me to part from
you?"

"Why were you obliged to tell my brother?" repeated Assja with an
expression of amazement.

"I tell you, I could not do otherwise. If you had not betrayed
yourself----"

"I had locked myself into my chamber," she answered simply. "I did not
know that my landlady had another key."

This innocent speech from her mouth at such a moment nearly cost me my
self-control. Even now I cannot think of it without emotion. Poor,
honest, innocent child!

"And so it is all over," I began again. "All. Now indeed we must part."
I threw a stolen glance at Assja, whose face became more and scarlet.
She was, I felt, alarmed and ashamed. I myself was greatly agitated, and
spoke like one in a fever. "You did not leave the budding feeling time
to unfold itself. You yourself have torn the bond between us. You had no
confidence in me; you cherished suspicion against me."

While I was speaking Assja bent forward more and more, then sank
suddenly on her knees, let her head fall into her hands, and broke into
sobs. I rushed to her and tried to raise her, but she resisted me. I
cannot endure women's tears; when I see them I lose my self-possession
at once.

"Anna Nicolaevna, Assja!" I cried repeatedly. "I beg, I implore you!
Stop, for God's sake!" I took her hand again.

But to my extremest astonishment she sprang up suddenly, sped like a
flash through the door, and vanished.

When Frau Luise came in a few moments later, I still stood in the middle
of the chamber as if thunderstruck. I could not believe that the
interview had come to an end so abrupt, so unmeaning, when I myself had
not said the hundredth part of what I meant to say, and was, besides,
quite uncertain how it should finally terminate.

"Is the young lady gone?" Frau Luise asked me, and raised her yellow
eyebrows quite to the parting of her hair.

I stared at her like an idiot, and went away.

       *     *     *     *     *

I left the village and made my way into the fields. Vexation, the
keenest vexation possessed me. I overwhelmed myself with reproaches. How
had it been possible for me to misunderstand the reason which had
induced Assja to change our place of meeting? How could I have failed to
know what it must have cost her to go to the old woman? Why had I not
detained her! Alone with her in the dim, empty room I had found the
strength, I had had the heart to drive her from me--even to reproach her
for coming. Now her image followed me; I besought her pardon. The memory
of that pale face, those shy, wet eyes, that hair flowing over the bowed
back, the soft nestling of her head against my breast, consumed me like
a fire. "Yours!" Her whisper still rang in my ears. "I have acted
conscientiously," I tried to say to myself. Lies! What was the
conclusion I truly wished? Am I in a condition to part with her? Can I
lose her? "O fool! fool!" I repeated with bitterness.

By this time the night had fallen. With hasty steps I sought the house
where Assja lived.

       *     *     *     *     *

Gagin came to meet me.

"Have you seen my sister?" he called to me, still at a distance.

"Isn't she at home then?" I returned.

"No."

"She has not come back?"

"No. Excuse me," Gagin went on. "I could not stand it. I went to the
chapel in spite of our agreement; she was not there; she cannot have
gone there."

"She did not go to the chapel."

"And you have not seen her?"

I had to acknowledge that I had seen her.

"Where?"

"At Frau Luise's. We separated an hour ago," I added. "I believed
certainly that she had come home."

"Let us wait," said Gagin.

We entered the house and sat down near each other. We were silent.
Neither of us was without anxiety. We watched the door and listened. At
last Gagin rose.

"This is the end of everything," he cried. "I don't know if my heart is
in my body. She will kill me yet, by God! Come, let us search for her."

We went out. It had grown dark.

"Of what did you talk with her?" asked Gagin as he crushed his hat down
over his eyes.

"I was with her five minutes at longest," I answered. "I spoke to her as
we had decided."

"Well," he said, "we would better go, each for himself; in that way we
shall find her sooner. In any event, come back here in an hour."

       *     *     *     *     *

Hastily I descended the hill and ran to the town. I made my way rapidly
through all the streets, staring in all directions, took another glance
at the windows of Frau Luise's house, reached the Rhine, and began to
walk quickly along its bank. From time to time I met women, but Assja
was nowhere to be seen. It was no longer vexation that I felt. A secret
fear oppressed me, and not fear alone; no, remorse, the warmest pity.
Love! yes, tenderest love! Wringing my hands, I called on Assja, into
the gathering darkness of the night; softly at first, then louder and
louder; a hundred times I repeated that I loved her. I swore never to
part from her. I would have given everything in the world to hear her
gentle voice again, to hold her cold hand, to see herself standing
before me. So near had she been to me, in perfect trustfulness, in utter
simplicity of heart and feeling had she come to me and laid her
inexperienced youth in my hands; and I had not caught her to my heart; I
had thrown away the bliss of seeing the shy face bloom into a joy, a
rapture of peace--this thought drove me to madness.

"Where can she be gone? What is become of her?" I called out, desperate
with helpless fears. Suddenly something white glimmered near by on the
shore. I knew the spot. An old half sunken cross with quaint inscription
stood there, over the grave of a man drowned seventy years before. My
heart stood still in my body. I ran to the cross. The white figure had
disappeared. "Assja!" I shouted. My wild cry terrified me. No one made
answer.

I determined to see if Gagin had found her.

       *     *     *     *     *

As I hastened up the footpath I saw a light in Assja's chamber. It
calmed me a little.

I drew near the house. The door was fastened. I knocked. A window in the
darkened first story was carefully raised, and Gagin's head showed
itself.

"Found?" I asked.

"She is come back," he whispered to me. "She is in her chamber, and
undressing. All is as it should be."

"God be thanked!" I cried, in a transport of inexpressible joy. "God be
thanked! Now all will be well. But you know we have something to say to
each other."

"Another time," he answered, softly closing the window--"another time.
For this, good-by."

"Till to-morrow then," I said. "Tomorrow everything will be clear."

"Good-by," Gagin repeated, and the window was shut. I came near to
knocking again. I wished to tell Gagin at once that I sought his
sister's hand. But such a wooing, at such an hour! "Till to-morrow
then," I thought. "To-morrow I shall be happy!"

"To-morrow I shall be happy!" Happiness has no to-morrow; it has no
yesterday; it knows of no past; it thinks of no future. The present
belongs to it, and not even the present day--only the moment.

I do not know how I reached S----. Not my feet brought me; not the boat
carried me; I was borne over as if on broad, mighty wings. My way led me
by a thicket in which a nightingale was singing. It seemed to me it sang
of my love and my joy.

       *     *     *     *     *

The next morning, as I drew near the familiar little house, one
circumstance seemed strange: all its windows were open, and the door as
well. Scraps of paper lay strewn about the threshold, and behind the
door a maid was visible with her broom.

I stepped up to her.

"They're off!" she volunteered, before I could ask her if the Gagins
were at home.

"Off!" I repeated. "What, gone? Where?"

"They went at six o'clock this morning, and did not say where. But stop.
You are surely Mr. N."

"I am Mr. N."

"There is a letter for you inside." She went in and returned with a
letter. "Here it is, if you please."

"But it isn't possible. How can it be?" I said. The maid stared at me
stupidly, and began to sweep.

I opened the letter. It was Gagin who wrote. From Assja not a line. He
began with a hope that I would not be angry with him on account of his
sudden departure. He felt assured that, after mature thought, I would
agree to his decision. He had found no other way out of a situation
which might easily become difficult, even dangerous. "Yesterday," he
wrote, "as we were both waiting silently for Assja, I convinced myself
fully that a separation was necessary. There are prejudices which I know
how to respect. I understand that you cannot marry Assja. She has told
me everything. For her own sake I am compelled to yield to her repeated,
desperate prayers." In conclusion he expressed his regret that our
acquaintance should be broken off so abruptly; wished me happiness;
shook my hand affectionately; and assured me that it would be useless
for me to try to find them.

"What prejudices?" I cried out, as if he could hear me. "Nonsense! Who
has given him the right to rob me of her?" I clutched my head with my
hands.

The maid began to call loudly for the landlady. Her terror rendered me
my self control. One thought took possession of me--to find them, to
find them at whatever cost. To submit to this stroke, to calmly accept
it, was impossible. I learned from the landlady that they had taken a
steamboat about six o'clock in the morning to go down the Rhine. I went
to the office. There I was told that they had taken tickets for Cologne.
I went home with the intention to pack at once and follow them. My way
led me by Frau Luise's house. All at once I heard some one call me. I
raised my head, and saw the Burgomaster's widow at the window of the
very room where, the day before, I had met Assja. She summoned me with
her disagreeable smile. I turned away, and would have gone on, but she
called after me that something was there for me. This brought me to a
standstill, and I entered the house. How shall I describe my feelings as
I again beheld that little room?

"To tell the truth," the old woman said to me, handing me a little note,
"I was only to give you that if you came here of your own free will. But
you are such a handsome young gentleman. Take it."

I took the letter.

The following words were hastily scrawled in pencil on a scrap of paper:

"Farewell! We shall not see each other any more. It is not from pride
that I go. No; I cannot do anything else. Yesterday, when I was crying
before you, it only needed a word from you--only one single word. I
should have staid. You did not speak it. It must be better so. Farewell,
for always."

       *     *     *     *     *

One word! Fool that I had been! This word! I had said it with tears over
and over. I had scattered it to the wind. I had repeated it--how
often--to the lonely fields; but to her I had not said it. I had not
told her that I loved her. And now I must never say it. When I met her
in that fatal room, I myself had no clear consciousness of my love.
Perhaps I was not even yet awakened to it while I was sitting with her
brother in helpless and fearful silence. A moment later it broke out
with irresistible force as I shuddered at the possibility of harm to
her, and began to seek her, to call her, but then it was already too
late. "But that is impossible," you say. I do not know whether it is
possible, but I know that it is true. Assja would not have left me if
there had been a trace of coquetry in her, and if her position had not
been a false one. She could not bear that which every other girl could
have borne; but that I had not realized. My evil genius held my
confession back from my lips, as I saw Gagin for the last time, at the
dark window, and the last thread that I might have seized slipped from
my fingers.

On the same day I returned to L---- with my travelling trunk, and took
passage for Cologne. I remember that, as the boat was under way, and I
was taking leave in spirit of the streets and the places I should never
lose from memory, I saw Nancy on the bank. She was sitting on a bench.
Her face was pale, but not sorrowful, and a stalwart young peasant stood
beside her, laughing and talking to her. On the other shore of the river
the little Madonna looked out, sad as ever, from the green shadow of the
old oak tree.

       *     *     *     *     *

I found myself on the Gagins' track in Cologne. I learned that they had
started for London. Hastily I followed them; but in London all my
inquiries were fruitless. For a long time I would not be discouraged,
for a long time I kept up an obstinate search; but at last I was obliged
to give up hope of finding them.

And I never saw them again; I never saw Assja again. Of her brother I
heard brief news sometimes; but she had for ever vanished from my sight.
I do not know if she is yet living. Once, while travelling, years
afterward, I caught a hasty glimpse of a woman in a railway carriage
whose face reminded me vividly of features never to be forgotten, but I
was deceived by a chance resemblance. Assja remained in my memory as I
had known her in the fairest days of my life, and as I had last seen
her, bowed over the arm of the low wooden chair.

But I will confess that I did not grieve too long for her. Yes, I have
even fancied that Fate had been kind in refusing to unite us. I consoled
myself with the thought that I could not have been happy with such a
wife. I was young, and the future--this short, fleeting life--seemed
endless to me. Why should not that be again which once had been so
sweet, and even better and more beautiful? I have known other women, but
the feeling which Assja awakened in me--that deep and ardent
tenderness--has never repeated itself.

No! No eyes could compensate me for the loss of those that once were
lifted, with such love, to mine. No heart has ever rested on my breast
which could make my own beat with such delicious anguish! Condemned to
the solitary existence of a man without a family tie, I bring my life to
its gloomy end; but I guard still, as a sacred relic, her letters and
the dried geranium sprig which she once tossed me from the window. There
clings a faint fragrance to it even yet; but the hand that gave it, the
hand that it was only once vouchsafed to me to kiss, has mouldered,
perhaps, for many a year in the grave. And I--what has become of me?
What remains to me of myself--of those happy and painful days--of those
winged hopes and desires? So the slight fragrance of a feeble weed
outlasts all the joys and all the sorrows of a man. Nay, it outlasts the
man himself!




TO BEETHOVEN.


  Clasped in a too strict calyxing
    Lay Music's bud o'er-long unblown,
  Till thou, Beethoven, breathed her spring:
    Then blushed the perfect rose of tone.

  O loving Soul, thy song hath taught
    All full-grown passion fast to flee
  Where science drives all full-grown thought--
    To unity, to unity.

  For he whose ear with grave delight
    Brings brave revealings from thine art
  Oft hears thee calling through the night:
   _In Love's large tune all tones have part._

  Thy music hushes motherwise,
    And motherwise to stillness sings
  The slanders told by sickly eyes
    On nature's healthy course of things.

  It soothes my accusations sour
    'Gainst frets that fray the restless soul:
  The stain of death; the pain of power;
    The lack of love 'twixt part and whole;

  The yea-nay of Free-will and Fate,
    Whereof both cannot be, yet are;
  The praise a poet wins too late
    Who starves from earth into a star;

  The lies that serve great parties well,
    While truths but give their Christs a cross
  The loves that send warm souls to hell,
    While cold-blood neuters live on loss;

  Th' indifferent smile that nature's grace
    On Jesus, Judas, pours alike;
  Th' indifferent frown on nature's face
    When luminous lightnings blindly strike;

  The sailor praying on his knees
    Along with him that's cursing God--
  Whose wives and babes may starve or freeze,
    Yet Nature will not stir a clod.

  If winds of question blow from out
    The large sea-caverns of thy notes,
  They do but clear each cloud of doubt
    That round a high-path'd purpose floats.

  As: why one blind by nature's act
    Still feels no law in mercy bend,
  No pitfall from his feet retract,
    No storm cry out, _Take shelter, friend!_

  Or, Can the truth be best for them
    That have not stomachs for its strength?
  Or, Will the sap in Culture's stem
    E'er reach life's furthest fibre-length?

  How to know all, save knowingness;
    To grasp, yet loosen, feeling's rein;
  To sink no manhood in success;
    To look with pleasure upon pain;

  How, teased by small mixt social claims,
    To lose no large simplicity;
  How through all clear-seen crimes and shames
    To move with manly purity;

  How, justly, yet with loving eyes,
    Pure art from cleverness to part;
  To know the Clever good and wise,
    Yet haunt the lonesome heights of Art.

  O Psalmist of the weak, the strong,
    O Troubadour of love and strife,
  Co-Litanist of right and wrong,
    Sole Hymner of the whole of life,

  I know not how, I care not why,
    Thy music brings this broil at ease,
  And melts my passion's mortal cry
    In satisfying symphonies.

  Yea, it forgives me all my sins,
    Fits Life to Love like rhyme to rhyme,
  And tunes the task each day begins
    By the last trumpet-note of Time.

                   SIDNEY LANIER.




THE DRAMATIC CANONS.


At intervals of varying length, the journals of the Anglo-Saxon races
are given to discussing the question whether the present age be one of
decadence or progress in dramatic art. Most readers of "The Galaxy" have
seen some phases of this discussion, which starts up afresh after the
arrival of every noted foreign actor or the production of a new play. It
is at present confined to the English-speaking nations, and prevails
more in America than England just now.

In France there is no lively interest in the theme. The French dramatic
authors seem to be pretty well satisfied themselves, and to satisfy
their audiences; their best claim to success being found in the fact
that English and American dramatic authors of the present day almost
invariably pilfer from them.

In the course of this perennial discussion we constantly meet with
appeals, on the part of those learned gentlemen, the theatrical critics,
to the "dramatic canons." Such and such a play is said to offend against
these "canons," and they are spoken of as something of which it is
shameful to be ignorant, but at the same time with a vagueness of phrase
betraying a similar vagueness of definition. It has seemed to us that an
inquiry into the nature of these canons may not be out of place at the
present time. This we propose to determine by consulting the practice of
those authors of former times whose productions still hold the stage as
"stock plays," so called, and of those modern authors still living whose
plays are well known and famous, being still successfully acted. By such
an analysis we may possibly settle something, especially if our inquiry
shall call forth the actual experience of those living who have attained
great success, whether as authors or adapters.

The most obvious division of our subject is into tragedy, comedy,
melodrama; but inasmuch as it is plain that the laws of success in all
these walks of dramatic art must contain much in common, we have
preferred a different division for analysis, leaving the kind of drama
as a subdivision common to each part of the inquiry. A less obvious but
equally just division will be as to the canons regulating the subject,
the treatment, and the production of a successful drama, in whatever
walk. We propose to ascertain our canons from the successful plays,
still holding the stage, of Shakespeare, Sheridan, Knowles, Bulwer, Dion
Boucicault, Tom Taylor, Augustin Daly, and Gilbert, together with such
single plays, like "The Honeymoon," "Masks and Faces," and a few others,
as are better known to the public than their authors, whose sole
dramatic successes they were. Ephemeral successes, however great, cannot
be safely taken as guides to a canon; but an established success of long
standing, however repugnant to our tastes, must be examined, even if it
take the form of the "Black Crook."

The influence of the French drama on Anglo-Saxon art has been so decided
that no safe estimates of canons can be made which do not take into
account the works of Sardou, Dumas, and the minor French authors, whose
name is legion. Fortunately for our subject, the French work on simple
principles, and will not confuse us any more than the Greeks, whom they
imitate. Let us try, then, to ascertain our canons in their order,
beginning with the subject of the drama.

What subjects are fit for dramatic treatment, and are there any entirely
unfitted therefor?

We find a pretty wide range in the successful dramas of modern time. In
tragedy we have ancient history, as shown by "Coriolanus," "Julius
Cæsar," "Virginius," "Alexander the Great"; medieval history, in
"Macbeth," "Richard III."; legendary stories, in "Lear," "Hamlet,"
"Othello," "Romeo and Juliet." In comedy and melodrama we have an almost
infinite variety, as much so as in novel writing. History, legend, and
pure invention claim equal right in the field. We have "The Tempest,"
"As You Like It," "Much Ado about Nothing," "Twelfth Night," "Henry
IV.," "Henry V.," "Merchant of Venice," "The Wonder," "The Honeymoon,"
"Masks and Faces," "London Assurance," "School for Scandal," "The
Rivals," "The Lady of Lyons," "Richelieu," "Wild Oats," "The Colleen
Bawn," "Arrah-na-Pogue," "The Shaughraun," "The Wife," "The Merry Wives
of Windsor," "Under the Gaslight," "Don Cæsar de Bazan," "American
Cousin," "Rip Van Winkle," and the "Black Crook," all well known and
successful plays, many perhaps being acted this very night all over the
Union and England. We are not here examining the question of the
goodness or badness of these plays, their merits or demerits: we are
merely recognizing them as well known plays, constantly being acted, and
always successful when well acted. Of all of these, the most constantly
successful and most frequently acted are those of Shakespeare, Sheridan,
and Bulwer, among the old plays, and those of Boucicault and Daly among
living authors. Almost all playgoers are familiar with these works, and
have seen them once or more; and every new aspirant for histrionic
honors has one or more of the plays of the first three in his list of
test characters. If he be a man and a tragedian, he must play Hamlet,
Othello, Richard, Shylock, Macbeth, Richelieu, Claude Melnotte; if
versatile, he must add Benedick, Charles Surface, Captain Absolute, and
others to the list; if a lady, she must be tested in Portia, Ophelia,
Pauline, Lady Teazle, Juliet--who knows what? Some very versatile ladies
have tried all the light comedy characters, finishing with Lady Macbeth
as an experiment. A short time ago there was quite an epidemic of Lady
Macbeths, but that is over for the present. The stray sheep have
returned to the fold. Let us return to them.

What can we glean about the limitations of the dramatic subject from
these successful plays? There is a limitation somewhere, and the first
and most obvious is--time. A novelist can make the minute description of
a life interesting. The most celebrated novels, such as "Robinson
Crusoe," "Vicar of Wakefield," "David Copperfield," "Pendennis," "The
Three Guardsmen," and others, have been just such books, imitations of
real biographies. But a play is limited in length to five acts, or six
at most, and its time of acting has a practical limit of three hours,
with the inter-acts. Each act is further practically limited to five
scenes, and it is but seldom that it stretches over three, while the
latter average is never exceeded and seldom reached in a five-act play.
No scene can properly contain more than a chapter of a novel, so we find
ourselves practically limited to a story which can be told inside of
fifteen chapters, the further inside the better. The French, who are
much more artificial than the English in their dramatic canons, almost
invariably limit their acts to a single scene, reducing their story
thereby to only five chapters. A careful comparison of successful acting
plays will generally end in bringing us to one obvious canon:

     I. The subject of a drama must be capable of being fully
     treated in fifteen chapters at most.

The next limitation that we meet is in the nature of the story. A
novelist can describe his hero and heroine and the scenes in which they
move. He can depict them in motion, and describe a long journey in
strange countries, trusting to picturesque scenery and incident to help
him out. He can give us a sketch of their former life, and tell how they
fared after they were happily married. The dramatist cannot do this. He
must put his people down in a given place and leave them there till his
scene is over, opening another scene or another act after a silent
interval. He can, indeed, put a narrative of supposed events into the
mouth of any of his characters, but such narratives are always dull and
prosy, and to be avoided. Shakespeare uses them sometimes, but only when
he cannot help himself, and always makes them short. The nearest
instances that occur to us are, the description by Tressel to Henry VI.
of the murder of Prince Edward, usually put now in the first act of
"Richard III.," and the story of Oliver in "As You Like It." Sometimes a
short story cannot be helped, but if told, it is always found to be of a
collateral circumstance not directly leading to the catastrophe. It
generally is brought in only to explain the presence of a character on
the stage in the successful drama. Sometimes it happens otherwise. For
instance, Coleman makes Mortimer, in the "Iron Chest," tell the whole
mystery of his life in the form of a story instead of acting it. The
result is a poor play, seldom acted, and generally to small audiences,
being only valuable for some special features of which we shall speak
later. It is not too much to ask for acceptance of this second canon
regarding the subject:

     II. The subject should be capable of being acted without the
     aid of narrative.

Is it still possible to limit the subject, and do novels and dramas
differ still further? A third limitation will reveal itself, if we
compare a typical drama, like "Much Ado About Nothing," or "Hamlet,"
with a typical novel such as "David Copperfield" or "Robinson Crusoe."
These latter depend for their interest on a series of adventures which
befall a hero, sometimes entirely unconnected with each other, just as
they happen to a man in real life, wherein he meets many and various
scenes and persons. Neither possesses any sequence of events, depending
on each other, such as pervades "Hamlet" and all acting plays. It is
true that some few novelists, such as Wilkie Collins, write novels that
depend on plot for their interest, but those typical novels which stand
at the head of the list do not. The masterpieces of Scott, such as
"Ivanhoe," "Talisman," "Old Mortality," are antiquarian studies, with
very slight plots; Dickens and Thackeray's best novels have no plot
worth mentioning; and where perfect plots are found, it is rare to find
a lasting and enduring novel. In a play, on the other hand, a plot seems
to be absolutely necessary to interest the spectator, the more intricate
the better. We have all seen Shakespeare's plays so often, that we are
apt to forget how intricate and involved many of his plots are; and when
we consider that most of his plots were taken from very bad novels which
have utterly perished from sight, while the plays still live, we begin
to realize by the force of contrast another canon relating to the
subject, which is this:

     III. The subject must have a connected plot, in which one
     event depends on the other.

When we come to restrict the dramatic subject any further, we encounter
more difficulty. Some might hold that the interest of the subject should
depend on either love or death, but we are met at once by instances of
plays in which the real interest is almost wholly political, such as
"Henry V.," "Richard III.," or moral, such as "Lear." Referring once
more to the effect of contrast with the novel for guidance, we find it
very difficult to separate subjects proper for dramatic treatment any
further than we have done, and almost impossible to lay down any
absolute rule to which distinguished exceptions cannot be quoted. It
might be said that the interest should turn on a single action, as it
does in most plays, and especially in tragedies, but here we are met by
"Much Ado About Nothing," "The Honeymoon," and other plays, where two or
three plots progress side by side in perfect harmony. It seems,
therefore, that any further absolute limitation of the abstract dramatic
subject is impracticable, and we must be content with adding a mere
recommendation for our fourth canon, much as follows:

     IV. The interest of the plot generally turns on either love
     or death, and generally hinges on a single action or
     episode.

When we come to speak of the _best_ subjects of dramatic writing, we are
really approaching the domain of treatment, which is much wider and
better defined. There it becomes a question for judgment and discretion,
and much more certainty can be attained. Instead of considering all
dramas, we narrow our search to the best only, judging them by the
simple tests of success and frequency of acting, and finding what sort
of subjects have been taken, and how they have been treated.

Let us then come at once to the question, What is the best method of
treating a given subject? Here we are again confronted by a variety of
decisions, some of which seem to conflict with others, but which all
agree in some common particulars. In the dramas written, down to the
time of Boucicault, it seemed to be assumed as a matter of course that
every first-class play, comedy or tragedy, must be written in five acts.
All of Shakespeare's, Sheridan's, Knowles's, follow this old rule, as
inflexible and artificial as some of the French canons, but with the
same compensating advantage, that author and audience knew what was
expected of each, and troubled themselves little over the structure of
their dramas. Of late years another custom has taken the place of the
five-act play, and many if not most of the modern dramas, while of the
same length as the old ones, are divided into four and even three acts.
Especially is this the case with comedies, and those nondescript plays
that are variously called "melodramas," "dramas," and "domestic dramas."
In the case of three-act plays, the number of scenes in each act is
frequently five, sometimes six or seven, but the common modern practice
restricts the last act, if possible, to a single scene. The number of
scenes must of course depend on how many are absolutely necessary to
develop the story. The French system of a single scene to each act has
one great advantage. It permits of very much finer scenery being
introduced than in a scene which is to be shifted, whether closed in or
drawn aside. For instance, when the curtain comes down between each
scene, the stage may be crowded with furniture, and those temporary
erections called "set pieces." There will always be plenty of time to
remove these between the acts, and noise of hammering is of no
consequence when the curtain is down. If there is more than one scene in
the act, all this is changed. Let us say there are only two scenes. One
of these must be a full-depth scene, but all the furniture and set
pieces are restricted to that part of the stage which lies behind the
two "flats" which make the front scene. In that front scene furniture
is inadmissible, without rudely disturbing the illusion. Let us suppose
the front scene to be the first, and that any furniture is left on the
stage. At the close of the scene the characters leave the stage, but
there stands the furniture. The old way to get rid of it is simple.
Enter a "supe" in livery, who picks up the one table and two chairs.
Exit, amid the howls of the gods in the gallery, who shriek "Soup!
soup!" as if they were suddenly stricken with hunger. Of course this
spoils the illusion; and the better the scenery, the more perfect the
other illusions, the easier they are disturbed by such incongruity.
Sometimes the set pieces in front, if there are any, and the furniture,
disappear through trap doors. In the large city theatres, such as those
where spectacular pieces are constantly produced, this method of
changing a scene is common, but such theatres themselves are not common,
and it costs a great deal to run them on account of the number of
workmen required. Our present inquiry is directed to the ordinary
theatre, with its stock company, simple scenery, and few traps. Of this
kind of theatre every town furnishes at least one sample. In such
theatres at least it will always be best to keep furniture and set
pieces out of the front scenes as much as possible, to preserve the
illusion. If the front scene come after the full-depth one, the wisdom
of this rule becomes still more apparent. A "supe" taking out furniture
is not half as ludicrous as one bringing it in, and without a trap such
a spectacle is unavoidable. The first canon offered by common sense is
obviously sound:

     V. Keep furniture and set pieces out of front scenes, if
     possible.

This rule being followed, will probably reduce the front scenes of a
drama to the open air, woods, gardens, halls, streets, church porches,
and similar places, where the attention will be concentrated on the
actors, not the picture. The scope of a front scene is further
restricted by the fact that you must bring your characters on and take
them off, being deprived of that valuable ally to illusion, the
"tableau." If the scene be the first of the act, a tableau may indeed be
discovered, but it cannot close the scene. The most common place for a
front scene is between a first and a third full-depth scene, to give
time for the change that goes on behind. This change always makes a
certain amount of noise, and the use of the front scene is to take off
the attention of the audience. This intention must be hidden at any
price, for, if perceived, it is fatal to the illusion. To hide it there
is only one method always reliable, which is to rivet the attention of
the audience on your characters, put in your best writing, and get up an
excitement to cover the scene. If you have any brilliant dialogue, any
passage of great emotion, any mystery to be revealed, put it in your
front scene so that your design may not be suspected, but the scene
appear natural. In brief the canon says:

     VI. Put the best writing into the front scenes.

The next question that arises as to the front scene relates to the
character of incident that should be treated therein. It is obvious that
it will not do to put in a crisis or a climax at such a place. At its
best a front scene is only a makeshift, a preparation for the full
scene. Its employment necessitates a loss of nearly three-quarters of
the available space, and the tableau loses all its power, as developed
in the full-depth scene. Its use is therefore a disagreeable necessity,
so disagreeable that the French discard it entirely. Mechanically it is
only an introduction to the full scene, and the more it partakes of the
same character intellectually, the less will it weary the audience. The
best preparation an audience can have for a scene is to make them eager
therefor, and the best way to make them eager is to leave them in
suspense, so that they are impatient for the movement of the flats that
opens the next picture. A familiar instance of this employment of the
front scene is found in the "Shaughraun," by Boucicault, before the
Irish wake. The front scene represents the outside of a cottage with a
door in the right flat; the peasants and other characters come in, talk
about the wake, and enter the house one after another. In this scene it
is also explained that the supposed corpse is not dead, but shamming, so
that there is no tragic interest associated with the coming scene, but
every one is anxious to see it. At last all the characters are off, the
flats are drawn aside, and the celebrated Irish wake makes its
appearance, taking the whole depth of the stage. The audience is
satisfied, and the front scene has answered its end, as expressed in
this canon:

     VII. Front scenes ought to terminate in a suspense, which
     the following scene will relieve.

From this canon it follows that the front scene should deal only with
explanatory and dependent matters, not the principal action of the
drama. Sheridan, in "The Rivals" and the "School for Scandal," opens his
first acts with front scenes, which introduce little of the matter of
the story. I am inclined to think that he had a reason for this which
still prevails, in the noise made by the audience. The beginning of the
first act of most plays is distinguished in the auditorium by much
shuffling of feet, opening of doors, taking of seats, especially by
those who take the reserved seats in front of the house. All this
disturbs the audience and makes them lose any fine points at the
beginning of a play, unless the actors strain their voices unduly. In a
front scene the flats immediately behind the actors serve as a sounding
board for the voice, and reduce the volume of space to be filled by the
speakers. The advantage gained in this way is balanced by the loss to
the eye in losing the full-depth scene, wherefore this method of opening
a play is not much in favor; but its use in the cases mentioned leads to
a general canon as to the first act of a play, which also recommends
itself to common sense:

     VIII. Avoid fine points, and have plenty of action at the
     beginning of the first act.

This rule, however safe and sensible, is hampered by the necessities of
the subject, to which everything must be subordinated. Let us see how
the greatest masters of dramatic construction in modern times open their
first acts. Of these Boucicault comes first, _facile princeps_. We will
take the "Shaughraun" and "Flying Scud" for examples. Both open in a
similar manner: in the first a young woman, in the second an old man,
engaged in household work, singing away at nothing particular. A quiet
picture not requiring close attention. To each, enter a disturber,
somewhat disagreeable, arresting attention. A short squabble, then more
characters coming on, one or more at a time, till the stage is pretty
full, and no flagging of interest. The act does not drag. Compare this
with Sardou's "Frou-Frou," "Fernande," and others. Sardou's first acts
almost invariably drag, and the success does not come till afterward.
One great difference is immediately perceptible. Sardou almost always
brings on his people in pairs, and takes them off together, leaving the
first act a succession of dualogues, with very little action. Now take
"The Lady of Lyons," an old success, which nowhere drags. It opens with
a picture, mother and daughter, doing nothing particular. Enter
disagreeable Beauseant, who makes an offer and is rejected. A mild
excitement at once arises, shut in by a front scene, short, lively, and
spirited, where Glavis and Beauseant plot for revenge on Pauline. The
scene ends in suspense, the actors having gone for Claude Melnotte, and
the flats draw aside, revealing Melnotte's cottage and introducing the
hero. By this time the audience is quiet and can take the fine points,
so the third scene of the first act can be made exciting. There is thus
no flagging of interest in either Bulwer or Boucicault. One does the
thing in three scenes, the other in a single scene, but both employ the
same means, which are thus expressed:

     IX. Open the first act with a quiet picture, and bring in
     the disturbing element at once. Having aroused attention,
     bring on all your characters, and end with an excitement.
     Avoid bringing on characters in pairs in this act.

The first act of a play is always surrounded with difficulties. The
interest of the audience has to be aroused, and all the characters
brought in. Every part of it must hang together, and the attention must
be excited more and more as the act progresses. This rule applies to the
whole play likewise, but in the first act it is especially necessary,
because there are so many things to divert attention, and the object of
the act is to catch it. After a certain period it must flag, and the
object of the dramatist must be to close his act before that dreadful
period. The office of the first act is to prepare for the second;
therefore it resembles the front scene in one important principle--it
should end in suspense, and make the audience eager for the second act.
Ending as it should in a full scene, it has the advantage over the front
scene that a tableau is possible, and should be used. This tableau must
be natural, and must come, as all tableaux come, out of a climax, but
the climax must not be complete. It must leave the audience in suspense,
and give them something to talk about in the inter-act. It must not be
too long delayed, or the act will drag. These and various other reasons
have led to this further canon, generally observed:

     X. The first act should be the shortest, and as soon as a
     partial climax is reached the curtain should come down. The
     tableau and action should indicate suspense and preparation.

This general rule indicates that the villain should be temporarily
triumphant, if the play is to end in his discomfiture. If his first
scheme fails in the first act, it is difficult to arouse interest in the
nominally imperilled innocence which is left in danger. The structure
becomes too artificial, and the dictum _ars est celare artem_ has been
violated. No rule is so safe in dramatic writing, as also in acting. The
end is--_illusion_.

The rule of putting only suspensory and preparatory action in the first
act is universally followed by Shakespeare and all other successful
writers of plays, and is better settled than any other. The first act
occupies the office of the first volume of a novel, explaining all the
story. Very frequently, in the modern French drama especially, it
assumes the form of a prologue, the action transpiring at an interval of
several years, sometimes a whole generation, before the rest of the
play. Only one instance of this character is found in Shakespeare, in
the "Winter's Tale," where the action of the drama demands a prologue,
but it is quite common in modern times, while another custom of
Shakespeare's--that of dividing a historical play into two "parts"--has
quite gone out of fashion. Its only modern example is that of Wagner's
opera of the "Niebelungen Ring," which takes a week to get through. The
Chinese and Japanese have a strong taste for this kind of play, but the
practice has vanished from Anglo-Saxon civilization. It must be
confessed that the employment of a prologue is rather a clumsy way of
opening a play. It is too apt to be complete in itself, and to join
clumsily to the rest of the drama. Besides this, it is hard to preserve
the illusion that the small child who appears in the prologue has
developed into the good-looking young person who is the heroine of the
rest of the play. The "Sea of Ice" is a familiar instance of this sort
of thing, where the same actress who personates the mother in the first
act, and gets drowned, blossoms into a girl of eighteen in the second
act, supposed to be her own daughter, last seen as a small child. In
"Winter's Tale" there is nothing of this. The supposed Perdita of Act I.
is merely a rag baby, and mother and child reappear together thereafter.
In cases where the interval between prologue and play is limited to a
year or two, this objection does not apply; in fact such prologues are
quite common and useful. The fanciful and magic prologue to the "Marble
Heart" is a very happy instance of conquest of the difficulties inherent
in long separated prologues. The wrench is so sudden from a Greek
sculptor to a French sculptor, from Athenian dresses to Parisian, that
the main interest of the play lies in the identification of the ancient
characters in the new dress, and the very fanciful absurdity of the plot
lends it an air of reality essentially dramatic. The end is illusion,
and illusion it is.

There is little more clear and positive to be said about the first act.
Study of the best models will reveal many points inherent in all, but no
general rules so clear as those of brevity, action, and suspense. The
practical limit of time is from fifteen to thirty minutes, the medium of
twenty being common to mono-scenic acts, but on this no positive canon
can be ascertained. It depends on the interest, and only this general
rule is partially true, that no interest can carry an audience through a
first act of forty-five minutes.

We next come to the middle acts of the play, and here again general
rules are hard to find. The number of acts varies so much that nothing
positive can be said except as regards fixed lengths of drama. Treating
all between the first and last acts as a whole, the first certain rule
that meets us is this truism:

     XI. From the second to the last act the interest must be
     regularly increased, and each act must end in suspense,
     leading to the next.

Without an observance of this rule no play can ever be permanently
successful as a general thing. There have been some poor plays with
little interest, that have been bolstered up for a time by the force of
a single character, portrayed by a peculiar actor, but in that case the
play becomes a mere "star play," not amenable to the common rules, and
useless out of the hands of the peculiar star who owns it. Of such are
those multiform dramas, constantly varying, of which Mr. Sothern makes
Lord Dundreary and Sam the central figures. The actor found he had made
a lucky hit in his character, and he hired out the work of altering the
play to any sort of literary hacks, so that he himself is really the
creator of the plays, and when he dies they will die. In the "American
Cousin," as it was first played, the interest lay entirely in Asa
Trenchard, and the drama was very skilfully constructed, with ascending
interest, to develop the ideal Yankee. In that part Jefferson made his
first public hit. As soon as he found that Dundreary had stolen the play
from its hero, Jefferson was wise enough to drop the contest between
high comedy and broad farce, in which the latter must conquer when they
come together. By taking up the ideal Dutchman (or rather German, as he
makes it) in Rip Van Winkle, he created a part of which no one can
deprive him, but which will probably die with him. No one else has
succeeded with it to the same degree, and "Rip Van Winkle" stands as a
model of a successful star play, wherein all the interest hangs on a
single character.

It is not the intention of this article to enter into the question of
what constitutes the interest of such plays as "Rip Van Winkle." To do
so would be to enter into a field where everything is uncertain, and
where judgment is only an expression of individual liking. The main
elements of the success appear to be humor and pathos, those twin
brethren of genius whose identity and individuality are frequently so
inextricable from each other. Both are drawn in broad, simple lights and
shadows, so that the simplest audience can take the points, while the
most cultivated members of that audience are studying the delicate
touches of the actor. The contrast between--but we must refrain from the
digression, however tempting. We are examining the dramatic canons, and
the only settled canons about which there is little doubt are those
relating to construction, not to sources of interest. In the kingdom of
invention genius is supreme, and amenable to no rules. Each writer must
work out his own salvation.

Constructively it is obvious that the number of acts in a play must be
regulated by the number of natural episodes in the action of its
subject; and the perfection of its construction is tested by the
liberties that can be taken with the acts and scenes. Of late years it
has become the fashion to alter and remodel Shakespeare's and other old
plays, by changing scenes and acts, cutting out and putting in. To an
ardent worshipper of Shakespeare as read, these alterations frequently
appear desecrations, but there is little question that they were and are
improvements. The construction of many of Shakespeare's plays is
decidedly faulty, and the nature of the improvements made by managers
and actors is best illustrated when the original play unaltered is tried
against the adaptation. The acting edition of "Richard III." is a
familiar instance of this. Colley Cibber arranged it, he being a shrewd
old actor and manager. His edition holds the stage today, and always
succeeds, where the original "Richard" fails. In this matter of
construction the chances are all in favor of the improvement of a work
by a shrewd adapter. His attention is directed to only one thing, the
successful presentation of the play. He is not an artist so much as a
workman. He creates nothing, he only alters and improves. He may be
perfectly incapable of creating an ideal character, while yet he can
make its language more compact, can concentrate its action. Such an
adapter is a skilful gardener. He cannot create the fruit tree, but he
can prune it, and stimulate it to the perfection of fruit-bearing.

The French stage has been a prolific nursery for these skilful workmen,
and they have managed to extract splendid successes from their work. It
is by comparing their English adaptations with a simple translation of
the work that one best sees the improvement. For instance, there is the
"Two Orphans," with a plot and incidents so repulsive in the original
that its translation failed in London in spite of its weird power.
Adapted and cleansed by a clever American author, it was the great
success of last year in New York, and is now running a fresh career of
success. Another instance that occurs is Sardou's "Fernande." It was
altered and adapted in New York by Augustin Daly, and succeeded. Another
version by Mr. Schönberg, then of Wallack's, a straight translation,
failed to secure a hearing in Boston, and ended in a lawsuit. This was
not for want of merit in the translation, which was excellent, but, as
appears from a comparison of the two plays, simply because Daly had
improved on Sardou. The alterations were small, but masterly, and showed
that Daly understood his business. In Sardou's play there appears a
certain character, a young count (I forget his name) who comes in at the
beginning of the first act, the close of the last. In the last he has
some very important business to do, but he appears nowhere else. Of
himself he does not aid the plot, but his last action is indispensable.
In the original play also appears the Spanish Commander, a mere sketch
in the first act. Daly suppressed the Count altogether, gave his best
business to the Commander, and brought the latter in all through the
play. The result was one good character instead of two poor ones, and
indicates a canon which can be confirmed by many other instances. This
canon shapes itself something like this:

     XII. Concentrate the interest on few characters, and avoid
     numerous unimportant parts.

This canon rests on the necessities of a stock company, as those before
rest on the nature of scenery and audiences. Every company has its
leading man, leading lady, low comedians, old man and old woman, and
those ordinary characters which all playgoers know by heart. If the play
does not fit these, it will not succeed. The appreciation of this fact
is one secret of the great success of Boucicault, Daly, and Lester
Wallack as play writers. They know the exact capacity of their stages
and companies from long experience, and write their plays to fit them.
With even ordinary talents they would have a great advantage to start
with over writers of greater genius, writing with vague ideas of what
the manager wants. As managers they know exactly what they want, and
what their companies can do. To a young writer the difficulties are all
in the start, unless he be an actor, or so closely related to actors or
managers as to be able to get behind the scenes at all times, and become
familiar with scenery, traps, machinery, rehearsals, and all the details
of the _business_ of theatricals. In former times, especially two
centuries ago, the task of writing a good acting play was far easier
than now. Scenery was simple, access behind the scenes easier--there was
not such a wall of separation as now exists between actors and audience
in a first-class city theatre. Even in those days, however, the writing
of plays was confined chiefly to actors, managers, and those men of
fashion who were given to haunting the green room. In the present day no
amount of talent in a writer seems capable of overcoming the
difficulties of technical construction of a drama. It is rare to find an
author of acknowledged talent in other departments, especially in
America, distinguished as a dramatist, and when one of them tries his
hand at playwriting he fails, not from lack of good dialogue and
literary finish, but solely from lack of knowledge of the business of
the drama, the limitations of actors and scenery, and the technique of
dramatic construction.

There is more hope to the American stage in the future in the production
of such undeniably original if mechanically faulty plays as Bret Harte
has given us in the "Two Men of Sandy Bar," than in the rapid carpentry
and skilful patchwork of hosts of French adaptations, whether they run
ten or five hundred nights. Our Hartes and our yet unknown writers daily
coming to the front, with freshness in their hearts and brains in their
heads, lack only technique and the custom of the stage, which no one can
give them but the managers and actors, who shall welcome them as
apprentices to learn the trade. That these latter will find it to their
advantage in the end to encourage a cordial alliance between the men of
the quill and the men of the sock and buskin, follows from a simple
calculation. If men of confessedly small talent and low character, such
as the host of lesser playwrights who furnish pabulum for the outlying
theatres, can write fair acting plays, simply by using mechanical
knowledge and stolen materials, it is probable that men of original
talent, already experienced writers in other branches of literature,
will end by producing much better and fresher work, when they are
offered and have enjoyed the same technical advantages.

                   FREDERICK WHITTAKER.




AN EVENING PARTY AMONG THE COSSACKS OF THE DON.


Sunset on the Lower Don; a dim waste of gray, unending steppe, looking
vaster and drearier than ever under the fast falling shadows of night; a
red gleam far away to the west, falling luridly across the darkening sky
and the ghostly prairie; a dead, grim silence, broken only by the plash
and welter of our laboring steamer, or the shrill cry of some passing
bird; an immense, crushing loneliness--the solitude not of a region
whence life has died out, but of one where it has never existed. Even my
three comrades, hardened as they are to all such influences, appear
somewhat impressed by the scene.

"Cheerful place, ain't it?" says Sinbad, the traveller; "and the whole
of southern Russia is just the same style--multiply a billiard board by
five million, and subtract the cushions!"

"I wonder what the population of this district can be," muses Allfact,
the statistician, looking disconsolately at his unfilled note-book.
"It's almost impossible to get any reliable information in these parts.
But I should think one man to three square miles must be about the
proportion."

"And not a feather of game in the whole shop!" growls Smoothbore, the
sportsman, with an indignant glance at his pet double barrel. "It's as
bad as that desert where the old sportsman committed suicide, leaving a
letter beside him to the effect that he must be firing at something, and
there being nothing else to shoot, he had shot himself!"

"I'll give you one entry for your note-book, Allfact, my boy,"
interrupted I; "there are _thirty-nine_ sand banks between this and
Rostoff, at the head of the estuary; and the upper stream is all banks
together--no navigation at all!"

"I should think not, by Jove, with that kind of thing going on!" says
Smoothbore, pointing to a solitary horseman who is coolly riding across
our bows with an aggravating grin, his dog following. Our outraged
captain has barely time to hurl at him some pithy suggestions respecting
his portion in a future life, which had better not be quoted, when there
comes a tremendous bump, and we are aground once more!

Just at this moment two wild figures come dashing along the bank at full
gallop, sitting so far forward as to be almost on the horse's
neck--their hair tossing in the wind like a mane, their small black eyes
gleaming savagely under the high sheepskin cap, their dark lean faces
thrust forward like vultures scenting prey--shooting a sharp, hungry
glance at us as they swoop by, in mute protest against the iron age
which compels them to pass a party in distress without robbing it. These
are the famous Cossacks of the Don, the best guerillas and the worst
soldiers in the world; at once the laziest and most active of
men--strangest of all the waifs stranded on the shore of modern
civilization by the ebb of the middle ages--a nation of grown-up
children, with all the virtues and all the vices of barbarism--simple,
good-natured, thievish, pugnacious, hospitable, drunken savages.[K]

[Footnote K: The Cossack is often erroneously classed by untravelled
writers with the native Russian, from whom he is as distinct as the
Circassian or the Tartar.]

It takes us fully ten minutes to "poll off" again, and we have hardly
done so when there comes a sound through the still air, like the moan of
a distant sea; and athwart the last gleam of the sinking sun flits a
cloud of wide-winged living things, shadowy, silent, unearthly, as a
legion of ghosts. The wild fowl of the steppes are upon their annual
migration, and for many minutes the living mass sweeps over us unbroken,
orderly, and even as an army in battle array--a resemblance increased by
the exertions of an active leader, who keeps darting back from his post
at the head of the column, and trimming the ranks like an officer on
parade.

"I wonder how many birds there are in that column," says Allfact,
instinctively feeling for his note-book, as if expecting some leading
bird to volunteer the desired information.

"Just like their mean tricks," mutters Smoothbore savagely. "First the
game won't show at all, and then they come so thick that no fellow would
be such a cad as to fire at 'em."

Night comes on, and the foul-creeping mist begins to steam up from the
low banks of greasy black mud, driving us perforce into the cabin, where
we speedily fall asleep on the benches along the walls--for bed-places
there are none. About midnight I begin to dream that I am a Christian
martyr in the reign of Diocletian, "in the act" (as Paddy would, say) of
being burned alive; and I awake to find it all but true. The fact is,
the steward, with a thoroughly Russian love of overheating, has put wood
enough into the stove to roast an ox; and there is nothing for it but to
bolt on deck again, where we remain for the rest of the night.

The panorama of the deck in the early morning forms an ethnological
study hard to match, except perchance by the Yokohama packet steaming
out of 'Frisco, or a "coolie boat" coming over from Demerara to
Trinidad. Gaunt, aquiline Cossacks, and portly Germans, and bumfaced
Tartars; red-capped, broad-visaged, phlegmatic Turks; slim, graceful
Circassians, beautiful with all the sleek tiger-like beauty of their
gladiator race; sallow, beetle-browed Russians, and black-robed,
dark-eyed, melancholy Jews. We have _one_ Persian on board--a lanky,
hatchet-faced rogue, half buried under a huge black sheepskin cap not
unlike a tarred beehive. He smokes one half the day and sleeps the other
half, and is only once betrayed into any show of emotion. This occurs at
one of our halting places on the second day, when he comes on board
again grinning and whooping like a madman, having succeeded (as I learn
when his excitement subsides) in cheating a Cossack out of a halfpenny.

But the appearance of the Russian _mujiks_ (peasants), and the manner in
which they curl themselves up anywhere and anyhow, and sleep the sleep
of the just with their heads in baskets and their feet in pools of dirty
water, baffles all description. A painter would revel in the third-class
deck about sunrise, when the miscellaneous hash of heads and limbs
begins to animate itself, like a coil of snakes at the approach of
spring--when mothers of families look anxiously about for the little
waddling bundles of clothes that are already thrusting their round faces
and beady black eyes into every place where they ought _not_ to go; and
when brawny peasants, taking their neighbor's elbow out of their mouth,
and their knee out of their neighbor's stomach, make three or four rapid
dips, like a drinking duck, to any village church that may be in sight,
and then fall to with unfailing zest to the huge black loaf which seems
to be their only baggage. The whole thing is like a scene in a fairy
tale:

  There was an old captain that lived in a "screw."
  He had so many passengers he didn't know what to do;
  They'd got nary baggage but one loaf of bread.
  They squatted round the funnel, and _that_ was their bed.

As we move southward, our surroundings alter very perceptibly. A genial
warmth and a rich summer blue replace the cold gray sky of the north;
the banks begin to rise higher, and to clothe themselves with thick
patches of bush, and even trees, instead of the coarse prairie grass;
while at every halting place the little wooden jetty is heaped with
perfect mounds of splendid grapes, sold at three cents per pound, by men
in shirtsleeves--phenomena which, to us who are fresh from the furred
wrappings and snow-blocked streets of Moscow, have a rather bewildering
effect. But the most striking sight is (to our friend Allfact at least)
the huge masses of coal which now fuel the steamer instead of the split
logs of the Volga.

"You see Russia's richer than her neighbors think," remark I. "On the
Don alone there are 16,000 square miles of the finest anthracite, which
leaves only two per cent. of ashes in burning."

"Sixteen thousand square miles!" cries the statistician, whipping out
his note-book. "Why on earth doesn't she use it, then, instead of
destroying all that valuable timber?"

"Well, you see, the railways are not completed yet; but when they are I
can promise you that Russia will cut out England altogether in supplying
Constantinople and the Levant."

One by one the little villages slip by us: Alexandrosk, the first sign
of which is the glitter of its gilded church-tower; Nikolaievo, with its
black marble monument to the late Crown Prince; Konstantirovskoë, the
birthplace of Prince Potemkin, brightest and most worthless of Russian
favorites, who "lived like an emperor and died like a dog." They are all
vary much of one pattern: substantial log-cabins, curiously painted,
with little palisaded gardens in front, and red-shirted men sitting
smoking at their doors, alternating with little wickerwork hovels daubed
with mud, which look very much like hampers left behind by a monster
picnic. Gangs of lean dogs (the pest of every Cossack village) are
sniffing hungrily about, while scores of sturdy wenches, with
berry-brown arms and feet, and sunburnt children clothed only in short
pinafores lined with dirt, run to stare at the wonderful fire-breathing
vessel as she comes gliding in.

The sun is just dipping below the horizon as we reach Semi-Karakorskaya,
and anchor for the night as usual; for to navigate the Lower Don in the
dark is beyond the power of any pilot afloat. Here a Cossack
official,[L] whose acquaintance we have made on board, proposes to us to
land and be presented to the "Ataman," or chief of the tribe, with the
certainty of seeing something worth looking at. The offer is joyfully
accepted, and five minutes later we are scrambling up the steep,
crumbling bank--in the course of which feat Allfact slips and rolls
bodily down into the river.

[Footnote L: The "Army of the Don," though now an integral part of
Russia, is still officered to a great extent by its own people.]

"There's something for the notebook at last, old boy!" cries Smoothbore
spitefully. "Write down that you notice _a great falling off_ in this
part of the country!"

To find one's way into a Cossack village at night is almost as hopeless
as the proverbial hunt for a needle in a haystack. The whole country
seems to consist of a series of carefully dug pitfalls, into which we
tumble one over the other, like fish out of a net; and our final
approach to the village is only to be guessed by the yells of the dogs,
which come about us with such zeal as to necessitate some vigorous
cudgelling, and a shower of trenchant Russian oaths, in which our
leader, thanks to his official character, seems to be quite a
proficient. At length a few lights, which appear to start from the very
ground under our feet, announce that we are among houses--underground
ones, it is true, but houses still. Then the first glimmer of the rising
moon lights up a row of log-cabins on either side, and the abyss of
half-dried mud between them; and at last, following our leader, we enter
one of those immeasurable courtyards in which the Cossack heart
delights, pass through a low doorway, ascend a creaking, ladder-like
stair, and, entering a small room at the head of it, find ourselves in
the presence of two men--one old and decrepit, the other in the prime of
life. The younger is the Ataman himself; the elder is his father, an old
soldier of the first campaigns of Nicholas.

Seen by the dim light of the lamp that stands on the rough-hewn table,
the "interior" is sufficiently picturesque: the heavy crossbeams of the
roof, the skins that cover the walls, intermingled with weapons of every
kind, from the long Cossack lance to the light carabine which is fast
superseding it; the fresh complexions and Western costume of the English
party, contrasting strangely enough with the commanding figure and dark,
handsome face of our host, in his picturesque native dress and high
boots; the long white beard and vacant, wondering eyes of the ancient
soldier; the picture of the Ataman's patron saint in the corner, with
its little oil light burning before it, and a pious cockroach making a
laborious pilgrimage around its gilt frame; and, through the narrow,
loophole-like window, a glimpse of the great waste outside, lit by
fitful gleams of moonlight.

Hospitality has been a Cossack virtue since the day that Bogdan
Khmelnitski gave meat from his own dish to the prisoners whom he was
about to slaughter; and we have hardly time to exchange greetings with
our new friends when we are set down to a plentiful meal of rye bread,
the splendid grapes of the Don, and "nardek"--a rich syrup strained from
the rind of the watermelon, not unlike molasses both in appearance and
flavor.

The "bread and salt" (as the Russians technically call it) being
despatched, my three comrades, with the native official as interpreter,
fasten upon the Ataman, while I devote myself to the old soldier, and
begin to question him on the Danubian campaign of 1826. It is a sight to
see how the worn old face lights up, and how the sunken eyes flash at
the sound of the familiar name; and he plunges at once into his story.
Seldom is it given to any man to hear such a tale as that to which I
listen for the next half hour, told by one of its chief actors. Weary
struggles through miles of hideous morass--men dropping from sheer
exhaustion, with the wheels of the heavy artillery ploughing through
their living flesh; vultures haunting the long march of death to tear
the still quivering limbs of the fallen; soldiers, in the rage of
hunger, feeding upon the corpses of their comrades--all the hideous
details of that terrible campaign, told in a quiet, matter-of-course
way, which makes them doubly horrible. My impromptu Xenophon is still in
full swing when high above the clamor of tongues rises a sound from
without, which nothing on earth can match save the war whoop of the
Western Indian--the shrill, long-drawn "Hourra!" of the Cossack, which
made many a veteran grenadier's stout heart grow chill within, as it
came pealing over the endless snows of 1812. We rush headlong to the
outer door, and this is what we see:

In the centre of the courtyard, under the full splendor of the
moonlight, stand some twenty tall, sinewy figures, in the high sheepskin
cap, wide trousers, and huge knee-high boots of the Cossack irregular.
They salute the Ataman as he appears by drawing their long knives and
waving them in the air, again uttering their shrill war cry; and then
begin to move in a kind of measured dance, advancing and retreating by
turns, to the sound of a low, dirge-like chant. Presently the music
grows quicker, the motion faster and fiercer; the dancers dart to and
fro through each other's ranks, brandishing their weapons, turning,
leaping, striking right and left--acting in terribly lifelike pantomime
the fury of a deadly battle. Seen in the heart of this great solitude,
with the cold moon looking silently down upon it, this whirl of wild
figures, and gleaming weapons, and dark, fierce faces, all eyes and
teeth, has a very grim effect; and even Sinbad's seasoned nerves quiver
slightly as the dancers at length join hands, and, whirling round like
madmen, burst forth with the deep, stern chorus with which their
ancestors swept the coasts of the Black Sea five hundred years ago:

  Our horses have trodden the steep Kavkaz (Caucasus);
  Of the Krim (Crimea) we have taken our share;
  And the way that we went is dabbled with blood,
  To show that _we_ have been there!

The volume of sound (stern and savage to the last degree, but yet full
of a weird, unearthly melody) fills the whole air like the rush of a
storm; and now, the Cossack blood being thoroughly heated, the play
suddenly turns to earnest. The nearest dancer, a tall, handsome lad with
a heavy black moustache, suddenly fells his next neighbor with a
tremendous blow between the eyes, which Heenan himself might have
applauded. The next moment the conqueror falls in his turn before a
crushing right-hander from his _vis-à-vis_; and in an instant the whole
band are at it hammer and tongs--apparently without "sides," order, or
object of any kind, except the mere pleasure of thrashing and being
thrashed. There is little science among the combatants, who deliver
their blows in a slashing, round-hand style that would agonize a
professional "bruiser"; but every blow dealt by those brawny arms leaves
its mark, and the whole company speedily look as if they had been taking
part in an election.

"By Jove!" says Smoothbore, with considerable feeling; "it does one good
to see a real good fight so far away from home!"

"You'd see plenty such in Central Russia," answer I. "Two villages often
turn out to fight, just as we'd turn out to play cricket.[M] They call
it 'Koolatchni boi.'"

[Footnote M: I remember one such battle near Moscow, in October, 1809,
in which more than a thousand men took part.]

But Sinbad, being a man of humane temper, thinks that the sport has gone
far enough, and appeals to the Ataman to stop it. One word from the
all-powerful chief suffices to part the combatants; and, a messenger
being despatched for some corn-whiskey, they are speedily chinking
glasses as merrily as if nothing had happened. I am standing
unsuspectingly in their midst when suddenly the whole company rush upon
me as one man, and I find myself lifted in their arms and tossed bodily
into the air six times in succession, amid yells of applause, to which
all the previous uproar is as nothing.[N] Next they pounce upon Allfact,
who, in his thirst for new ideas, submits readily enough; but Sinbad and
Smoothbore take to their heels at once, and are with difficulty pacified
by our host and his venerable father, who are looking on from the
doorway.

[Footnote N: This singular compliment (a universal one among the
Cossacks) is probably a relic of the old custom of raising their
"Kosbevoi," or head chief, on a shield when elected.]

This closes the entertainment, for it is now nearly midnight, and we are
to start again at sunrise. We take a cordial leave of our new friends,
and depart, laden with bunches of grapes which are somewhat difficult to
carry conveniently.

"I wonder why they tossed me up like that?" muses Allfact, as we grope
our way down to the shore.

"Why!" answers Smoothbore. "Why, to take a _rise_ out of you, to be
sure."

                   DAVID KER.




DRIFT-WOOD.


THE WILLS OF THE TRIUMVIRATE.

"Nothing so generally strikes the imagination and engages the affections
of mankind," says Sir William Blackstone, "as the right of property."
Sure it is, that society palpitates whenever a great estate passes to a
new owner, disclosing its vastness in the act of transit. Perhaps for
this fact we may find another reason in Blackstone, where he says:
"There is no foundation in nature why the son should have the right to
exclude his fellow creatures from a determinate spot of ground because
his father had done so before him, or why the occupier of a particular
field or of a jewel, when lying on his death-bed, and no longer able to
maintain possession, should be entitled to tell the rest of the world
which of them should enjoy it after him." But since the law, to reward
thrift and avoid strife, has established this artificial right of
disposal, the disparities of fortune, on these signal occasions of
transfer, always set us to pondering.

Vanderbilt, last of the three monstrously rich men of New York who have
died within three years, furnishes in his will the now tripled evidence
of a new ambition in American Croesuses--an aim to keep their fortunes
rolling and greatening for several generations in the exact paths where
they were started. Supposing that Mr. Stewart's bequest to Judge Hilton
was designed to purchase his entrance into the dry goods firm, we should
have a common aim of the triumvirate, since each has put a chosen man
into his shoes, as if with the hope to live on in this successor, like
Mordecai in "Deronda." The master passion of acquisition is thus
striving to outwit death. Astor and Vanderbilt found their second selves
in favorite sons; childless Stewart could only take his confidential
agent. Each conceivably died in the hope that a successor so carefully
selected and endowed would in turn hand over the bulk of his gigantic
wealth, in its original channel, to some steward chosen with equal care;
so that ages hence the Astor fortune still in houses, the Stewart
fortune still in trade, the Vanderbilt fortune still in railways, might
flourish under successive guardians, faithful to their tradition and
training. The John Jacob, the Cornelius, the Alexander of the past has
been blessed with the vision of his millions multiplying as he would
have them multiply, and haply has dreamed of accomplishing by his own
foresight an entail which he could not create under the laws.

If this be the new tendency that American life is called upon to face,
it is at least not hard to account for. The thirst for posthumous fame
which inflamed old heroes and poets rages still in days when greatness
collects rents, sells dry goods, and corners stocks. And after all, what
is there stranger in struggling to prolong after death one's imperious
railroad sway, his landlord laws, his massive trade monopolies, than in
slaving out one's childless old age in the hard rut of traffic, in order
to turn five surplus millions into ten?

To Dives, after a life of accretion, the prospect of frittering his
wealth into fragments must be painful. Heirs will waste what he toiled
to win. That fortune which grew so great while he rolled it on turns
out, after all, but a snowball, to be broken apart and trampled by
careless spoilers when he is gone. There are, to be sure, hard-headed
philosophers who contemplate coolly the dispersion of their hoard. I
remember from boyhood that when somebody rallied Squire Anthony Briggs,
of Milldale, on his veteran vigilance in money-getting, saying, "Your
children will spend as fast as you have made it," stanch old Tony
answered: "If they get as much pleasure from spending my money as I have
in making it, they are welcome." But with prodigious fortunes like
Astor's and Vanderbilt's, the instinct of accumulation which increases
what is already preposterously great may struggle to keep it
accumulating after death. When Bishop Timothy sonorously declares from
the desk that we brought nothing into this world, neither may we carry
anything out, Croesus in the pew below takes this as a very solemn
warning to him--warning to secure betimes the utmost posthumous control
of his money that the laws allow. Dombey's soul is not wrapt up in the
miser's clutching love of money, but in the money-getting institution of
Dombey & Son; and not only in the Dombey & Son of to-day, but the
Dombeys & Sons of centuries hence. To found a dry-goods dynasty, a line
of railway kings, a house of landed Astors, its owner puts the bulk of
his vast wealth into a single hand--in that _exegi monumentum_ spirit
common to bard and broker, soldier and salesman. _Non omnis moriar,
multaque pars mei vitabit Libitinam_, the millionaire may then
triumphantly say.

On the other hand, the Cornells and Licks of our day, wonderfully
numerous, have made America renowned by their public uses of wealth,
either in lifetime gift or testamentary bequest; and this devotion of
private fortune to the common weal is fostered by the observed
independence of each generation in pursuing its own mode of life without
regard to the customs of ancestors.

But the testamentary aim of the richest trio that ever lived in America
was to escape this national trait of beneficence; to substitute the
perpetuity of one's business monopoly or family trade; to struggle
against any serious division of the enormous fortune, even at the cost
of preferences among equal children; to spare not one dollar out of
fifty millions for the public; to heap the gigantic hoard, save what for
other legatees propriety demands, on some "chip of the old block" or
business "bird of a feather." This purpose also influenced their lives.
"Magnificence is the decency of the rich," but little magnificence
marked the lives of those three rich New Yorkers. Powerful, self-willed,
all-conquering they were, but hardly magnificent. Unprecedented and
incredible thing in America, neither Stewart nor Vanderbilt left one
poor dollar of his fifty or sixty millions to any municipal or
charitable purpose. Filled with his posthumous business plans, neither
cared for New York as Girard cared for Philadelphia and Hopkins for
Baltimore. True, each of the Gotham triumvirate endowed in life an
institution of public beneficence--Astor his library, Vanderbilt his
college away in Tennessee, Stewart his hotel for women. It is further
true that men who, like Vanderbilt and Stewart, give sure pay for many
years to thousands of employees, are benefactors. But to do this, and
then to leave besides some testamentary memorial to the city where one
has heaped up his wealth, has hitherto been the aim of the rich men of
America. Girard not only founded his orphan college, ornament and pride
of Philadelphia, but left great sums to beautify and improve the city by
removing wooden houses and widening thoroughfares. Stewart, scrupulously
just in business dealings, deserves public gratitude as the apostle of
"one price," and as the cash-selling reformer who protected prudent folk
from the higher prices caused in trade by the allowances for bad debts;
but, this apart, in the will of Stewart and the will of Stephen Girard,
what a world-wide difference of public spirit! That one act of grace
that might have tempered his forgetfulness toward New York--the gift of
his picture gallery for public uses--even this act Stewart did not do.
The contrast is startling between the bequests of an Astor, a Stewart, a
Vanderbilt, and those of a Girard, a Peabody, and a Johns Hopkins.


THE DUEL AND THE NEWSPAPERS.

Barring the two services, doctors used, I fancy, to be the great
duellists among professional men. And still, ever and anon, some
irascible Sawbones rushes to the ten-paced turf, where, though he be
spectacled or pot-bellied, those disadvantages rarely calm his
blood-letting rage. But editors are the modern magnates of the code; not
because they thirst for gore, but only because the guild of M. Paul de
Cassagnac is professionally liable to give offence, and hence to be
dragged to the field of glory and to die with boots on. I once saw a
statement that the famous fighting editor of the "Pays" had taken part
in eighteen duels, "besides having a man to kill next month"; and he was
greatly coveted by a Missouri paper that had been losing its writers in
street encounters too rapidly for convenience.

The newspapers have emptied their vials of wrath or ridicule upon Mr.
Bennett for his duel with young May: now in horror over his resort to
the measured ground, and anon in scorn at the bloodless result.
Nevertheless, had Mr. Bennett failed to fight that duel, he and his
newspaper would have been butts during his lifetime for the shafts of
half the editorial archers of the land. A noble refusal to resent the
public insult would have been misrepresented with ingenious malice, in
the hope to disgrace him and ruin his property. In answer to "Herald"
arguments on disputed questions, the unresented cowhiding of its owner
would have been paraded by rival sheets. Rarely in business or political
controversy would they have failed to taunt him with cowardice. Life
would have been a burden to him; and if the consciousness of having
refrained in that instance from breaking the laws of man and of God
could have saved him from desperation, it would not have been for lack
of the sneers of newspapers continually fomenting and reviving public
contempt against him. Sometimes a man is goaded by such stings into a
second duel, after having been able to resist fighting the first; or
else he puts an end to a life which has been made unendurable through
constant imputations. Let those who doubt what would have occurred
recall the instantaneous newspaper sarcasms, after the street assault,
on the question "whether a man is answerable for hereditary tendencies
to receive a public cowhiding without resenting it." The satirist who
eggs on a duel in that fashion feels justified afterward in invoking
public contempt for the man that fights it.

What is the upshot of this comment? That duelling is ever commendable?
Most emphatically no. Duelling, branded by the law, is also now so
branded in public opinion that it would be waste of words to
anathematize it. But what is suggested by the venom of some of the press
writers is that they have never put themselves into the place of a man
who, with the average sensitiveness to personal affront, and with
thorough-going physical courage, had also a clear perception of the
remorselessness of his journalistic rivals. From some of them he could
expect no more mercy than from the red gentry of the plains. Let those
who are sending their arrows into Mr. Bennett ask themselves whether
they are wholly sure that in his position, with his family history
behind them, they would have done otherwise after the street assault. At
any rate, neither duelling nor that cowardly substitute, shooting down
an unprepared man who has done some wrong, will be driven out of fashion
by bringing newspaper taunts of "showing the white feather" against
those who fail to resort to such lawlessness.


THE INDUSTRY OF INTERVIEWERS.

It was a quarrel totally apart from newspaper affairs, as we all know,
that carried the editor of the "Herald" to the field of honor at
Marydell. Indeed, Mr. Bennett's conduct before and after the duel was so
"unjournalistic" that the Philadelphia reporters are said to have sent
him a letter, while he tarried in that city, protesting that a gentleman
so well aware of the "usages of the profession" ought to submit to be
interviewed. But the physician does not always swallow his own drugs.
Mr. Bennett, on receiving the missive, remarked that it was "all right,"
and remained uninterviewed, thus setting an awful example to the
community.

A public attack by a man armed with a cowhide upon another not so armed
is hardly a feat that excites admiration, while the affair at Marydell
was in no sense such reparation for the previous insult as in common
parlance to be thought "satisfaction." But one feature of the
Bennett-May quarrel not unpleasant to read was the outwitting of the
news-gatherers and their resulting desperation. "Had the duel taken
place on the Canada border the parties to it could hardly have evaded
our extensive arrangements to report it," said one journal after the
affair, in a somewhat lugubrious and yet self-vindicating strain. The
promptness of Mr. Bennett's movements, and his skill in throwing the
reporters off the scent, lest the duel might be stopped, were hard blows
to the newspapers. But theirs was no dishonorable defeat--it was one of
the fraternity that beat them. Even the device of giving imaginary
accounts of the battle in order to draw out the true one was
unsuccessful until Mr. Bennett had sailed for Europe.

On the May side there was a trifling gain for the interviewers, but not
much. Dr. May, senior, seems to have been condemned to a copious
acquaintance with journalists; for, though in knowing Mr. Bennett he had
already perhaps known one too many of them, his house appears to have
been overrun, after the Fifth avenue assault, with the fraternity, who,
in the "strict discharge of professional duty," swarmed multitudinously
upon him. At least, one morning the "Tribune" said:

    The May mansion in West Nineteenth street was a sealed book
    to reporters yesterday, and the door was promptly shut in
    the face of those who were recognized as newspaper inquirers
    by the negro in charge. Dr. May has made no secret of his
    anger at the reports, too accurately drawn, of his
    appearance of anxiety and alarm when expecting bad news from
    his son, and will have nothing to say to representatives of
    the press.

Here, it will be observed, is a claim to something professional in the
very aspect of the "newspaper inquirer" whereby the sable guardian of
the portal may know him well enough to take the responsibility of
slamming the door in his face. Again, we observe here a tribute to the
interviewer's skill; for, prior to the duel, Dr. May, though politely
presenting himself, could give no news; but his lynx-eyed visitors had
gathered from the very attitude, tone, and look of their host the
material for an item as picturesque as any tidings. So the besieged
householder, as we have seen, took refuge in total eclipse, leaving only
a "negro in charge" to determine the status of his callers.

Yet the most discerning negro in charge sometimes proves a weak barrier
against invasion. The trained interviewer can take a protean shape, and
introduce himself under disguise of the most sympathetic friendship or
the most urgent business. Sometimes he is the picture of respectful woe,
or anon it is he who has a favor to confer by bringing news of pressing
importance. Close and private indeed must be that conference whose
secrets he cannot worm out. He gave to the public the "family scene of
astonishment at the opening of the Vanderbilt will" the very morning
after the affair occurred. Should moral borings fail, he can resort to
material ones, as when, a few months since, he cut a hole in a hotel
floor, to apply his ear to, over the room where a Congressional
committee sat in secret session, being detected only by the unlucky
plaster falling among the astonished statesmen below. He is the animal
of the fable, who, having once "got in," cannot be got out until ready
to go. In our war times some commanders looked upon him, coming to camp
in never so fair a guise, with the misgivings of the hapless Trojan
regarding the wooden horse; and it is said of Baron Von Werther that he
"treats as an enemy all newspaper correspondents, even though they have
the best personal introductions to him." Such fears of warriors and
diplomats, who quail before no ordinary foes, are tributes to the
interviewer's prowess.

It must go hard but he gets something from the sullenest and most
refractory customer. We have seen his harvests at the May mansion, when
baffled by real ignorance on the part of his victim; hence we may guess
whether he is to be checked by a mere wilful purpose to conceal, or the
whim to keep a matter private. At very worst, his own description of his
rebuff will be humorous and piquant. Often do we have an entertaining
half column beginning, "Our reporter waited upon," etc., and, after
descriptions of household ornaments, personal dress, and so on, ending
in this way:

    _Ques._--You say, then, that you can give me no information
     whatever?

    _Ans._ (_snappishly_)--As I have already told you a dozen
     times, no information whatever.

    _Ques._--And that is positive and final?

    _Ans._ (_savagely_)--Positive and final.

    Here our reporter took his leave, wishing the gentleman a
    very good morning, to which politeness of our reporter the
    uncommunicative gentleman only distantly bowed.

But these defeats form a rare experience of the interviewer, who even
then continues to pluck victory (that is to say, an item) out of their
jaws. His ordinary career is a round of triumph which has made him a
leading figure in the portrait gallery of modern society. I wonder that
Mr. Daly does not introduce it at length into some of his comedies of
American life. Drawn faithfully, and personated by Mr. James Lewis, the
dramatized interviewer would be a wealth of pleasure.

                   PHILIP QUILIBET.




SCIENTIFIC MISCELLANY.


THE FORCE OF CRYSTALLIZATION.

The old story of a bombshell filled with water and left to burst by
freezing, upon the plains of Abraham, near Quebec, may now be superseded
as an illustration of the power of frost. The men at a Western dockyard
were surprised to find one morning that the paddle-wheel of a steamer in
the dry dock had fallen from the shaft, and was broken in two pieces.
The hub of the wheel, about fifteen inches long, was slightly hollowed
out at the centre to admit of its being slipped on without difficulty
over any uneven portion of the shaft-end. This recess was full of water
when the boat was placed in the dock, and the keying had been so close
that the liquid--about a pailful--was exposed to the frost. As the water
congealed under the sharp wintry atmosphere of the night it expanded and
burst asunder the five-inch walls of iron, and the broken wheel fell
with a crash.


FROZEN NITRO-GLYCERINE.

Two accidents, both fatal, have lately occurred from the use of
nitro-glycerine for blasting. In one case some frozen cartridges were
recklessly placed in the oven of a stove, while others were held up to
the fire. That an explosion should take place under such circumstances
is not surprising, and comment is unnecessary. The other explosion
partook more clearly of the nature of an accident. A well digger, living
near Sing Sing, had buried a can of nitro-glycerine in his garden for
future use; and while digging it up, January 18, his pick struck the
can, ignition followed, and he was blown to pieces. No doubt the can was
frozen, thus proving anew that frozen nitro-glycerine is more dangerous
to handle, though not so powerful in its effects, as in the liquid form.
This is singular behavior and contrary to theory. In general terms,
explosion may be defined as the result which takes place when a portion
of the nitro-glycerine is raised to a given temperature. Now, to produce
this temperature by the friction resulting from the blow of a pick is
manifestly more difficult with frozen than with tepid liquid. In the
former case some of the heat produced would be absorbed by the
liquefaction of the solid substance, and therefore there would be less
available for producing the temperature of explosion. But, plain as this
proposition is, there must be some unknown condition, for it has been
frequently observed in practical work that nitro-glycerine is never so
dangerous to handle as when frozen. This result, however, is directly
opposed to the experiments of Beckerhinn, of Vienna, who lately
experimented to decide this question. He placed a thin layer of
nitro-glycerine on a Bessemer steel anvil, and a weight of about five
pounds, having a small hardened steel face, was dropped upon it. The
height to which it was necessary to raise this weight in order to
produce explosion determined the comparative delicacy of the explosive.
With tepid nitro-glycerine explosion took place when the weight dropped
about 31 inches (0.78 metres), but with frozen liquid the fall had to be
increased to about 85 inches (2.13 metre). Thus the experimental results
are opposed to the acknowledged experience of practical work in the
hands of common laborers. Mr. Beckerhinn found the density of the solid
nitro-glycerine to be 1.735, that of the liquid 1.599, and the average
melting heat to be 33.54 heat units. Thus the explosive shrinks about
one-twelfth in crystallizing.


ENGLISH GREAT GUNS.

The largest rifled cannon in the world is a 100-ton gun, made for the
Italian government by Sir William Armstrong's firm. But the English
government is preparing to outdo this, and already has the plans ready
for a gun of 164 tons. It hesitates, in fact, between a weapon of this
size and one of 200 tons, a mass of metal which its shops are now
perfectly able to handle. The meaning of the term--200-ton gun--is
simply this: a tube of iron and steel of that weight, fifty feet long,
having a calibre of 20 inches, and firing a shot of 3,500 or 4,000
pounds weight, with a charge of 800 pounds of powder! The human capacity
for astonishment has grown perforce as the successive steps have been
taken from the guns of ten and twenty tons to these weapons, which must
remain huge whatever further advances are made. The character of warfare
with them is best indicated by the fact that the 200-ton gun must be
handled entirely by machinery. The advent of these unmanageable weapons
is signalized by the invention of a hydraulic apparatus for working
them. The vast shock of the recoil from the bursting of thirty-two kegs
of powder--enough to throw down 1,200 tons of rock in mining--is taken
up by a cylinder pierced with small holes. These holes are capped with
valves, held down with a pressure of fifty tons to the square inch. When
the force of the recoil exceeds this the water is forced out of the
holes and the recoil thus taken up in work done. The breech of the piece
is supported on a hydraulic ram, the elevation of which depresses the
muzzle of the gun below the level of the deck, and brings it exactly in
line with an iron tube carrying the sponge. This is run up to the base
of the powder chamber, a deluge of water rushes from apertures in its
head, and the bore is completely cleaned out and every spark of
remaining fire extinguished. The rammer then retires, the sponge is
taken off, and the powder hoisted by tackle to the muzzle, whence the
rammer pushes it home, and then does the same for the shot. The shot and
cartridge, weighing together about 1,350 pounds, are stored on little
iron carriages, every charge in the magazine having its own carriage.
The loading finished, the gun is raised, pointed, the port flies open,
and the discharge immediately follows. What the result of the blow from
such a projectile would be is not to be imagined. It is acknowledged,
however, that in the struggle for mastery the gun has beaten defensive
armor. No ship has been built to stand the shock of a 3,500 pound bolt
moving at the velocity of 1,300 or 1,500 feet a second.


EAR TRUMPETS FOR PILOTS.

Prof. Henry has turned his attention to the discovery of means for
increasing the distinctness of sound signals at sea. It is a very large
hearing trumpet, projecting mouth foremost from the top of the
pilot-house of a steamboat. But he soon found that a single hearing
trumpet would not answer the purpose, for though it greatly augmented
the perceptive power of the ear, it destroyed the capacity of that organ
for distinguishing the direction of sound. For this purpose two ears are
necessary. Prof. Henry then made use of two hearing trumpets, the axes
of which are separated about 30 inches. An india-rubber tube proceeding
from the axis of each is placed so as to terminate in the ear of the
observer--one in each ear. With this instrument the audibility of the
sound was very much increased, but as a means of determining the
direction of the source of sound, it was apparently of little use. For
this purpose the unaided ear is sufficient, provided the head is placed
above all obstructions and away from reflections.


HOT WATER IN DRESSING ORES.

We have before alluded to the investigations made to ascertain the
reason why clay settles more rapidly in solutions of some salts than in
pure water, a fact which appears contrary to reason, since it might be
inferred that the greater the specific gravity the more buoyant the
fluid. But the fact is abundantly confirmed, and it is likely to find
important application some day in the arts. The property which every
substance has of sinking through a fluid of less density than its own
forms the basis upon which nine-tenths of the gold and copper, and
probably six-tenths of the silver produced in this country, is extracted
from its ores. It is the foundation of the art of ore dressing, one of
the most important parts of metallurgy. Anything which increases the
rapidity and thoroughness of the process may have a fortunate
application in this art. Mr. Ramsay, of the Glasgow university
laboratory, thinks the property in question depends upon the varying
absorption of heat by the different solutions. When water containing
suspended clay is heated the rapidity of settling is proportional to the
heat of the water. This mode of accelerating the movement of fine
sediments in water is perhaps more easily applied than the solution of
caustic soda or potash, or of common salt. Rittinger, by a mathematical
discussion of the principles which control the downward movement of
solid particles in an ascending stream of water, showed that the
separation of light from heavy minerals is more complete with solutions
of density greater than that of water than in water alone. He found a
solution of 1.5 sp. gr. extremely favorable. If the addition of heat
will increase the effect of such a solution, it may become possible to
separate, by means of the continuous jig, minerals so near in specific
gravity as barite and galena. This whole subject of ore dressing is one
of the most important questions connected with the future of mineral
industry in America. In the Mississippi valley everything connected with
metallurgy, from the fuels to the finished metal, will one day be
closely dependent on it.


OCEAN ECHOES.

Prof. Henry communicated to the National Academy at Philadelphia his
latest researches into the subject of sound, and among them an
explanation of the echo observed on the water. This echo he had formerly
been inclined to attribute to reflection from the crests of the waves.
Tyndall holds that it is due to reflection from strata of air at
different densities. Prof. Henry's present explanation is that this echo
is produced by the reflection of the sound wave from the uniform surface
of the water. The effect of the echo is produced by the fact that the
original sound wave is interrupted. It has what the learned Professor
calls _shadows_, produced by the intervention of some obstacle in its
path. Sound is not propagated in parallel, but in diverging lines, and
yet there are some cases where what may be called a "sound shadow" is
produced. For instance, let a fog-signal be placed at or near water
level on one side of an island that has a conical elevation. Then the
signal will be heard distinctly by a vessel on the opposite side of the
island at a distance of three miles. But when the vessel sails toward
the island (the signal being on the opposite side), the sound will be
entirely lost when the distance is reduced to a mile, and in any smaller
distance it is not recovered. In this case the station of the vessel at
the shorter distance is in the "sound shadow." The termination of that
shadow is the point at which the diverging beams of sound, passing over
the crest of the island, bend down and reach the surface of the water.
The formation of the sound echo may be explained by this extreme
divergence of the sound waves, for it is rational to suppose that at a
great distance from the source of sound some of the dispersed waves will
reach the water surface at such an angle as to be reflected back to the
hearer. This was well illustrated by an experiment made to test
Tyndall's theory. A steam siren was pointed straight upward to the
zenith, but no echo from the zenith was heard, though the presence of a
cloud from which a few raindrops fell certified the presence of air
strata of different densities. But, strange to say, an echo _was_ heard
from every part of the horizon, half of which was land and half water.
The only explanation of this fact is that the sound waves projected
upward were so dispersed as to reach the earth's surface at a certain
distance, and at that point some of them had curled over and assumed a
direction that caused their reflection back to the siren.


THE DELICACY OF CHEMISTS' BALANCES.

In making chemical balances for fine work the beam is made in the truss
form to prevent the bending which takes place even under such small
loads as an ounce or two. Prof. Mendeleef has a balance that will turn
with one-thousandth of a grain, when each pan is loaded with 15,000
grains. This extreme sensibility is obtained by the use of micrometer
scales and cross threads at the end of the beam, these being observed by
means of a telescope. Of course one weighing with this complicated
apparatus occupies a long time. In most balances the beam rests on steel
knife edges; but a maker who has lately obtained celebrity makes his
supports of pure rock crystal. The steel edges can be seen with the
naked eye; the quartz edges cannot be seen even with a magnifying glass.
One writer on this subject thinks that with these perfect crystal edges,
with an inflexible girder beam, a short beam giving quick vibrations,
and a sensitiveness that can be increased by screwing up the centre of
gravity, there can hardly be a practical limit to the smallness of the
weight that will turn the beam. The amount of motion may be very small,
but if this can be observed, the limit of possible accuracy is very much
extended.


GOVERNMENT CONTROL OF THE DEAD.

What the population of European countries was a hundred years ago it
would be hard to tell with accuracy; but the nations have doubled and
trebled in strength within the century. Sanitary precautions have
increased in importance, and the very noticeable movement in regard to
social hygiene which now possesses English society is perhaps due in
part to the obvious dangers to which thirty million human beings are
subjected when living together on such a small area. The medical officer
for Birkenhead has pointed out that it may be necessary for the
government authorities to take more complete charge of the dead as a
possible source of infection. He says that the intelligence of deaths
from infectious diseases now furnished by local registrary would be much
more useful than it is as a means for limiting the spread of disease if
the medical officer were vested with further powers in respect to the
infected dead body. At present neither the medical officer nor any one
else has any power to order the immediate removal of an infected body,
and those in charge of it might do what they liked with it. He advocated
the necessity of power being given to medical officers to order the
immediate removal of the infected bodies to a public mortuary and their
speedy burial.


MICROSCOPIC LIFE.

Dr. Leidy lately described to the Academy of Sciences in Philadelphia an
encounter for life which he witnessed between two microscopic
animalcules. The two creatures were respectively 1-625th and 1-200th of
an inch in diameter. On the morning of August 27, from some mud adhering
to the roots of sphagnum, obtained the day previously in a nearly
dried-up marsh at Bristol, Pennsylvania, he obtained a drop of material
for examination with the microscope. After a few moments he observed an
amoeba verrucosa, nearly motionless, empty of food, with a large central
vesicle, and measuring 1/25th of a millimetre in diameter. Within a
short distance of it, and moving directly toward it, was another and
more active amoeba, regarding the species of which he was not positive.
It was perhaps the one described by Dujardin as amoeba limax, by which
name it may be called. As first noticed, this amoeba was one-eighth of a
millimetre long, with a number of conical pseudopods projecting from the
front border, which was one-sixteenth of a millimetre wide. The creature
contained a number of spherical food spaces with sienna colored
contents, a large diatom filled with endochrome, besides several clear
food spaces, a posterior contractile vesicle, and the usual glanular
endosarc. The amoeba limax approached and came into contact with the
motionless amoeba verrucosa. Moving to the right, it left a long
finger-like pseudopod curved around its lower half, and then extended a
similar one around the upper half until it met the first pseudo-pod.
After a few moments the ends of the two projections actually became
continuous, and the verrucosa was enclosed in the embrace of the amoeba
limax. The latter assumed a perfectly circular outline, and after a
while a uniformly smooth surface. It now moved away with its new
capture, and after a short time what had been the head end contracted
and became wrinkled and villous in appearance, while from what had been
the tail end ten conical pseudopods projected. The amoeba verrucosa
assumed an oval form, and the contractile vesicle became indistinct
without collapsing. Moving on, the amoeba limax became more slug-like in
shape. The amoeba verrucosa now appeared enclosed in a large oval, clear
vacuole or space, was constricted so as to be gourd-shaped, and had lost
all trace of its vesicle. Subsequently it was doubled upon itself, and
at this point the amoeba limax discharged from one side of the tail end
the siliceous case of the diatom, which now contained only a shrivelled
cord of endochrome. Later the amoeba verrucosa was broken up into fine
spherical granular balls, and these gradually became obscured and
apparently diffused among the granular contents of the entosarc of the
amoeba limax. The observations from the time of the seizure of the
amoeba verrucosa to its digestion or disappearance among the granular
matter of the entosarc of its captor, occupied seven hours. From naked
amoeba the shell-protected rhizopods were no doubt evolved, and it is a
curious sight to observe them swallowed, home and all, to be digested
out of their house. It was also interesting to observe the cannibal
amoeba swallowing one of its own kind and appropriating its structure to
its own use, just as we might do the contents of an egg. The amoeba
verrucosa he describes as remarkable for its sluggish character, and in
appearance reminds one of a little pile of epithelial scales or a
fragment of dandruff from the head. It is oval or rounded, transparent,
and more or less wrinkled, or marked with delicate, wavy lines.


THE SOURCES OF POTABLE WATER.

In the British Social Science meeting, Mr. Latham, a civil engineer of
London, brought up the question of water supplies and endeavored to find
rules for the guidance of water engineers in those apparently
contradictory facts which the observation of recent years has produced
so abundantly. It has been generally considered that water which has
received the sewage of large populations must be unfit for domestic use;
but careful investigation would show that when such polluting matter has
been passed into a river, and exposed to the influence of light,
vegetation, etc., it becomes innocuous. This is shown by the good health
enjoyed by the inhabitants of London, which place receives its supply
chiefly from the Thames and the Lea, both of which rivers receive a
considerable amount of sewage pollution. The author instanced Wakefield,
Doncaster, and Ely as towns that draw their supplies of water from
sources into which sewage matter enters, and yet whose inhabitants are
healthy. The cholera epidemic at Newcastle-on-Tyne in 1853 was supposed
to have been caused by the use of polluted Tyne water, and yet it was
clearly ascertained that disease was much more rife among those persons
who used local well water. These facts, which have often been quoted,
were not favorably received by the audience, who greeted with laughter
Mr. Latham's assertion that water into which sewage matter has entered
can be purified by a short exposure to the air. That statement may be
too strong; but there is acknowledged truth in the author's main point.
He considered it was clearly proved that water derived from underground
sources, or from which light and air have been excluded, is impure, and
consequently unfit for domestic use. Universal testimony showed that
decaying matter easily found its way into underground sources of supply.
Well water may become seriously contaminated by the slow steeping of
noxious matters, and be less wholesome than the water of a running
stream that receives much larger quantities of impurity.


THEORY OF THE RADIOMETER.

Prof. Crookes has at length announced a theory in explanation of the
movements exhibited by the remarkable "light mill" of his invention. He
says: "The evidence afforded by the experiments is to my mind so strong
as almost to amount to conviction, that the repulsion resulting from
radiation is due to the action of thermometric heat between the surface
of the moving body and the case of the instrument, through the
intervention of the residual gas. This explanation of its action is in
accordance with recent speculations as to the ultimate constitution of
matter, and the dynamical theory of gases." The most refined means for
exhausting the air from the glass bulb which contains the suspended
vanes of the radiometer leave, and if they were to be carried to
absolute mechanical perfection, would still leave a certain amount of
gas in it. But Dr. Crookes has carried this attenuation so far that the
number of gas molecules present can no longer be considered as
practically infinite. Nor is the mean length of their paths between
their collisions any longer very small compared to the size of the bulb.
The latest use to which the radiometer has been put was to test the
viscosity of gases at decreasing pressures. The glass bulb was furnished
with a stopper lubricated with burnt rubber. This was fixed and carried
a fine thread of glass which is almost perfectly elastic. To the end of
this thread hung a thin oblong plate of pith to which a mirror was
attached. The glass stopper being fixed, and the bulb capable of
rotation through a small angle, it is evident that when the bulb is
rotated the pith ball will remain at rest except as it yields to the
friction of the air moved by the bulb. It does move, swinging a certain
distance and then back, like a pendulum. The amount of this movement is
carefully observed by a telescope, and recorded for five successive
beats. As the pith and glass fibre form a torsion pendulum, it is
evident that these beats will gradually die down in consequence of the
resistance of the air. By exhausting the air to various degrees of
rarity, it was proved that Prof. Clerk Maxwell's theory, that the
viscosity of a gas is independent of its density, is correct. The
logarithmic decrement of the first five oscillations (that is, the
decrease, oscillation by oscillation, of the logarithm of the arc
through which the pith vanes swing), was found to be nearly the same
when the air was almost exhausted as when it was at its natural
pressure, proving that its viscosity remained nearly equal for all
pressures. Only in the exceptionally perfect vacuum referred to above
did this logarithmic decrement sink to about one-twentieth of what it
had commenced with. Repulsion of the vane by the action of light
commences when this decrement is one-fourth of what it was before the
exhaustion of air began. As the rarity of the air within the bulb
increases the force of this repulsion begins to diminish, like the
logarithmic decrement, and when the latter has sunk to one-twentieth the
former has fallen off one-half. All these and other facts previously
obtained prove that the action of light is not _direct_, but _indirect_;
and Dr. Crookes has, after repeatedly refusing to consider hasty
judgments, in consequence come to the conclusion stated above, that the
rotation of the light mill is the result of heat. This decision accords
with the opinion of other observers. The radiometer has already entered
the field of industrial science, and is used to measure the duration of
exposure of photographic plates. De Fonvielle has made with it a new
determination of the sun's thermometric power. He made a spectroscope
with a graduated screen, which permitted the amount of light that
entered the apparatus to be graduated at will. In the path of the beam
he placed a radiometer, and by comparing its action in the graduated
light ray, and in the light of a standard oil lamp, burning 42 grammes
(11.3 ounces Troy) per hour, he found that at 4 o'clock, on June 4,
1876, the radiating force of the sun was equal to 14 lamps placed 25
centimetres (10 inches) from the radiometer.


TEMPERED GLASS IN THE HOUSEHOLD.

The "tempered glass," which has made the name of M. de la Bastié, its
discoverer, so well known, does not prove to be always manageable. It
was to have the strength of metal, and not shiver with changes of
temperature. But an English lady has found that it sometimes has
precisely the contrary characteristics. She purchased twelve globes for
gaslights, and they were made in the manufactory of M. de la Bastié
himself. But one night, after the gas had been extinguished for exactly
an hour, one of the globes burst with a report, and fell in pieces on
the floor, leaving the bottom ring still on the burner. These pieces,
which were of course found to be perfectly cold, were some two or three
inches long and an inch or so wide. They continued for an hour or more
splitting up and subdividing themselves into smaller and still smaller
fragments, each split being accompanied by a slight report, until at
length there was not a fragment larger than a hazel nut, and the greater
part of the glass was in pieces of about the size of a pea, and of a
crystalline form. In the morning it was found that the rim had fallen
from the burner to the floor in atoms. In all these phenomena the
behavior was that of unannealed glass, of which so many curious
performances have been related.


THE NEW YORK AQUARIUM.

A marine and fresh-water aquarium has been opened in New York, and both
from its intrinsic merits and as the first attempt to institute in this
country a valuable mode of scientific amusement and instruction, it
deserves mention. It does not equal in size or arrangements any of the
celebrated places of the kind abroad. Still it contains tanks of
considerable size, and in them some very interesting denizens. The
shark, sturgeon, skate, sea-turtle, and other fishes are represented by
large individuals, and their habits can be watched at leisure. A small
white whale was also at one time one of the attractions. Fish breeding
is carried on in the establishment, which receives constant additions to
its occupants by expeditions which are said to be especially planned for
this purpose. In any case New York is an excellent point for an
aquarium, and probably receives every year enough rare living fish at
its great markets to maintain such an institution. The commencement now
made is a worthy one, and it can easily become an important source of
pleasure and usefulness. The system employed is that of constant
circulation, the water being pumped from a reservoir to the several
tanks. Pumps and pipes are made of hard rubber. A library, a
naturalists' laboratory, equipped with tables, microscopes, etc., are
either established or projected in the building.


THE CRUELTY OF HUNTING.

The outcry against the practice of making surgical experiments upon
living dogs, rabbits, and other animals has roused some vivisectionists
to return to the subject of hunting. This is one of the principal themes
of the philosophic philanthropist, whose opposition to the practice
seems to be an outgrowth of the better acquaintance which man has made,
through science, with the lower animals. He accomplishes his task very
effectively by calculating the number of animals which are wounded but
not recovered by English sportsmen every year. The official returns show
that in 1873-'4 there were 132,036 holders of gun licenses, and 65,846
holders of licenses to kill game in the British dominions. In 1874-'5
the numbers were 144,278 and 68,079, showing that the disposition and
ability to hunt are on the increase. As a basis for computation, the
partridge season of 21 weeks is taken, and two days' hunting are allowed
for each week; while three birds are supposed to be wounded and "lost"
daily by each sportsman. This gives 126 birds wounded and left to suffer
unknown torments by each one of the 68,079 holders of game licenses. The
total is no less than 8,296,496 "lost" birds in 1873-'4, and 8,577,954
in 1874-'5. Then the holders of gun licenses have the right to shoot
birds which are destructive to crops, etc., and two lost birds each week
in the year is calculated to be the average. This makes no less than
13,731,744 wounded birds in 1873-'4, and 15,004,912 in 1874-'5. The
total is in round numbers _twenty million_ birds injured each year!
These estimates are made by "Nature," and they correctly represent the
ground on which the modern opposition to the hunt as a cruel and
unnecessary occupation is based. Of course the figures are not exact.
The only effort made was to have them within bounds; and considering all
the varieties of game pursued in England, and the extraordinary keenness
of Englishmen for sport, this estimate is probably correct. Quite lately
they have been confirmed by a noted hunter on the western plains, who
says that in his case a day's sport was usually marked by the "loss" of
two or three animals. As he is an uncommon shot, his experience cannot
be more unfortunate than the average. Such calculations show us how
enormous are the results when the whole human race engages in one
action. At present, English society offers the contradictory spectacle
of a large and increasing body of hunters who oppose vivisection on the
ground of cruelty, and a small and increasing body of vivisectionists
who oppose hunting also on the ground of cruelty.


THE GORILLA IN CONFINEMENT.

Great interest attaches to the career of the young gorilla now in the
Berlin aquarium. Dr. Hermes described some of his peculiarities at a
late meeting of the German Association of Naturalists and Physicians. He
nods and claps his hands to visitors; wakes up like a man, and stretches
himself. His keeper must always be beside him and eat with him. He eats
what his keeper eats; they share dinner and supper. The keeper must
remain by him till he goes to sleep, his sleep lasting eight hours. His
easy life has increased his weight in a few months from thirty-one to
thirty-seven pounds. For some weeks he had inflammation of the lungs,
when his old friend Dr. Falkenstein was fetched, who treated him with
quinine and Ems water, which made him better. When Dr. Hermes left the
gorilla on the previous Sunday the latter showed the doctor his tongue,
clapped his hands, and squeezed the hand of the doctor as an indication,
the latter believed, of his recovery. Apparently he means to support, by
every means in his power, the effort at a hot-house development of the
ape to the man. A large glass house has been built for him in connection
with the palm house.


INSTRUCTION SHOPS IN BOSTON.

The Boston Institute of Technology is somewhat noted for its boldness in
making educational experiments; its efforts so far having been directed
toward the introduction of practical trade instruction into an advanced
school. Some years ago it endeavored to establish a model room for
dressing ores and another for smelting them; but the success of this
trial seems to be more than doubtful. Both of these pursuits are too
extensive to be represented by one shop or by sample work. Nothing
daunted by this failure, President Runkle has lately introduced a
"filing shop" as the first step toward practical instruction in
engineering work. This shop has about thirty work tables, each provided
with a vise and tool drawers. Filing is one of the first things the
young apprentice has to learn; and those who think that anybody can file
who has hands may be surprised to learn that the filing of a hexagon
bolt head is one of the tests for a Whitworth prize scholarship. The
difficulty of making a flat surface is in that task combined with the
necessity of having the faces of equal size and placed at equal angles
to each other. The plan in the Boston institute is to have the student
spend ten weeks in filing, and then the same length of time in each the
forging shop and the turning shop. The two latter are not yet ready.
These three steps form part of a two years' course in mechanical
engineering, the tuition fee to which is $125 yearly. The main objection
to such schools is that engineers and practical men persist in refusing
to accept such instruction as a substitute for actual work. The Boston
institute is making praiseworthy efforts, but it seems to be adopting a
system which has never been in favor just at a time when the smelting
works and machine shops of the country appear willing to unite with the
scientific schools in supplying students with real experience of work as
a requirement for a diploma.

       *     *     *     *     *

A new mode of compressing arteries is by the use of a hard pad having a
prominent projection, which is pressed against the artery or vein by a
strong elastic ring of rubber passed over the limb.

       *     *     *     *     *

The Harvard summer schools were so far successful that the last
catalogue reports forty students in geology, twenty-five in chemistry,
twenty-five in phenogamic botany, and six in cryptogamic botany.

       *     *     *     *     *

A case in which the heart was severely wounded without causing immediate
death lately occurred in England. The wound was made by a knife which
passed between the third and fourth ribs, through the wall of the heart
into the cavity of the left ventricle. The man lived sixty-four hours.

       *     *     *     *     *

M. Peligot warns housekeepers against the advice so often given, to use
borax for the preserving of meat. He finds that borax and the borates
affect plants very seriously, and doubts whether it can be innocuous to
animals. French beans watered once with a solution of borax quickly
withered and died.

       *     *     *     *     *

A young American, Dr. James by name, was killed with his partner (a
Swede) at Yule Island in September last, by the natives of New Guinea.
They were hunting birds of paradise at the time. Dr. James left some
valuable collections which have been described before the Linnæan
Society of London.

       *     *     *     *     *

In extending the underground railway of London, the excavations
disclosed Roman and other remains of considerable interest. Among the
former there were found fragments of urns, specimens of pottery, and
bronze coins. The most remarkable discovery was that of a thick stratum
of bullock's horns, commencing about twenty feet below the surface, and
extending to an unascertained distance beneath. Although the deposit was
doubtless made many centuries ago, the horns had suffered so little by
decay that they found a ready sale in the market. This road has carried
in thirteen years 408,500,000 passengers. In 1863, the first year, the
number was 9,500,000, which increased to 48,500,000 last year.

       *     *     *     *     *

Foreign papers say that Mr. Floyd, the President of the board of
trustees for the Lick donation, has come to an arrangement with M.
Leverrier, the celebrated French astronomer, for the better execution of
the instruments to be made for the Lick Observatory. The masses of glass
required are to be made in Paris, at Feil's glass works, and the
object-glasses very likely by an English optician.

       *     *     *     *     *

Two distinguished men were officially superannuated last year: Profs.
Milne-Edwards and Delafosse of the Paris Museum. The son of the former
takes his place, and Descloiseaux succeeds to the chair of mineralogy.
Professors Dove of Berlin and Wöhler of Göttingen have had their
_jubiläum_ or fiftieth anniversary of their doctorates. All these facts
illustrate the conservative influence of student life.

       *     *     *     *     *

The Western mines of gold and silver have lately yielded some new and
interesting minerals. Roscoelite is a vanadium mica from a gold mine at
Granite creek, California. The vanadic acid varies from 20 to 23 per
cent. Psittacinite is a vanadate of lead and copper, which occurs
associated with gold, lead, and copper minerals at several mines in
Silver Star district, Montana. It is considered to be a favorable
indication, for when that is found the vein is said to become rich in
gold. Coloradoite is a telluride of mercury, also a new mineral and
quite rare.

       *     *     *     *     *

Dr. Piggott proposes to replace the spider's web of telescopes by a star
illuminated transit eye-piece. A sheet of glass, on which a thin film of
silver is deposited, is placed in the focus of the eye lens; transparent
lines are drawn on the film, instead of wires, and as the star passes
across the lines it is seen to flash out brightly. The film of silver is
made sufficiently thin to permit of the star being seen when it is
between the lines, but it appears that the lines themselves are only
visible, except in the case of very large stars, when the star disc is
in transit across a line.

       *     *     *     *     *

Singular results of strains existing in the granite rocks through which
the St. Gothard tunnel is passing are recorded. When the shots are fired
at the end of the gallery they are sometimes succeeded at unequal
intervals by other explosions at points where there is no drill hole and
no powder. Workmen have been injured by these spontaneous explosions,
which are to be explained only on the theory that there are strains in
the rock; and when this tension is increased by the shock of a heavy
explosion, the rock flies in pieces with noise. Similar effects have
been noticed in other granites.

       *     *     *     *     *

It is said that aniline colors are now used to color wines, and that
enough of them is taken into the Bordeaux district of France to color
one-third of its whole product. Husson gives the following method for
detecting it: Take a small quantity of the wine and add a little
ammonia, when the mixture turns a dirty green. Steep a thread of white
woollen yarn in the liquor and allow a drop of vinegar to flow along it.
If the color of the wine is natural, as the drop advances the original
whiteness of the wool is restored; but if the wine has been
sophisticated with magenta, the wool will take a rose color. This test
is simple, easily tried, and effective.

       *     *     *     *     *

An inquiry into the results of systematic gymnastic exercises in a
French military school shows that the strength is increased on the
average 15 to 17 per cent., and is also equalized on both sides of the
body. The capacity of the chest is increased at least 16 per cent. and
the weight 6 to 7 per cent. Coincident with this increase is a decrease
in the bulk of the body, showing that fat is changed to muscle. The
improvement is confined to the first three months of the course unless
the exercise is then moderated. If continued at too high a rate,
weakness succeeds the increase of strength. It would be a good plan to
place a dynamometer in every gymnasium as a measure of the changes which
take place in the gymnast.


MOON MADNESS.

The popular belief that the moon's rays will cause madness in any person
who sleeps exposed to them has long been felt to be absurd, and yet it
has appeared to have its source in undoubted facts. Some deleterious
influence is experienced by those who rashly court slumber in full
moonshine, and probably there is no superstition to which the well-to-do
pay more attention. Windows are often carefully covered to keep the
moonbeams from entering sleeping rooms. A gentleman living in India
furnishes "Nature" with an explanation of this phenomenon which is at
least plausible. He says: "It has often been observed that when the moon
is full, or near its full time, there are rarely any clouds about; and
if there be clouds before the full moon rises, they are soon dissipated;
and therefore a perfectly clear sky, with a bright full moon, is
frequently observed. A clear sky admits of rapid radiation of heat from
the surface of the earth, and any person exposed to such radiation is
sure to be chilled by rapid loss of heat. There is reason to believe
that, under the circumstances, paralysis of one side of the face is
sometimes likely to occur from chill, as one side of the face is more
likely to be exposed to rapid radiation, and consequent loss of its
heat. This chill is more likely to occur when the sky is perfectly
clear. I have often slept in the open in India on a clear summer night,
when there was no moon; and although the first part of the night may
have been hot, yet toward two or three o'clock in the morning, the chill
has been so great that I have often been awakened by an ache in my
forehead, which I as often have counteracted by wrapping a handkerchief
round my head, and drawing the blanket over my face. As the chill is
likely to be greatest on a very clear night, and the clearest nights are
likely to be those on which there is a bright moonshine, it is very
possible that neuralgia, paralysis, or other similar injury, caused by
sleeping in the open, has been attributed to the moon, when the
proximate cause may really have been the _chill_, and the moon only a
remote cause acting by dissipating the clouds and haze (if it do so),
and leaving a perfectly clear sky for the play of radiation into space."


THE ARGUMENT AGAINST VACCINATION.

An English physician opposes compulsory vaccination on the ground that
it prevents further discovery, and compels medical science to halt at
just that point, because it forbids experiment upon methods of
prevention that may prove to be better. He says: "It stereotypes a
particular stage of scientific knowledge, and bars further progress. If
I remind you of the great improvement thought to have been made by the
introduction of inoculation by Lady Mary Wortley Montagu at the end of
the last century, and ask you to suppose that Parliament might then have
passed an act to compel every one to be inoculated, you will, I think,
see what is meant. This method was tried for some years with great
_éclat_, but afterward it was found to spread the smallpox so much that
an act of Parliament was passed to forbid its use. Vaccination,
introduced by Dr. Jenner, has followed, and this was another step in
advance. I was the first child in my father's family vaccinated
seventy-one years ago, several elder brothers and sisters having been
inoculated. Both methods answered in our cases. But for many years I
have been satisfied that other diseases besides the modified small-pox
(called cow-pox) are now introduced by the old vaccine, and have
steadily refused to use it, seeking rather, at increased trouble and
expense, new vaccine. And the question which comes forcibly to the front
is this: May not some other preservative be discovered which shall be a
further improvement? This question cannot be answered so long as
vaccination is compelled by law. There are no persons upon whom
experiments can be tried." So far as it goes, this is valid ground for
criticising vaccination laws. But the proof that small-pox is more
disastrous to the human race than the evils that vaccination brings with
it is so strong that there is little likelihood society will subject
itself to the attacks of the greater enemy in order to avoid the lesser.
The evils of the old system of using vaccine taken from human beings for
new inoculations are now no longer inevitable. Fresh vaccine direct from
the calf, and called "Bovine," can be had everywhere. A large
establishment for obtaining it is situated near New York.




CURRENT LITERATURE.


Colonel Dodge's "Plains of the Great West"[O] is one of the most
entertaining and important books of the kind we have met with. Whether
he treats of the chase, the natural history of the wild animals found on
our continent, or the Indians, he draws upon abundant resources of
observation and experience. His description of the much talked of
"plains" is new. He distinguishes three of these, the first lying next
the mountains, the next known as the "High Plains," being to the
eastward, and finally the broad surface of the lower plains. As the high
plains are more fertile than either of the others (owing to diversities
of soil), we have the singular effect of a country suddenly becoming
more fertile as the interior of the continent is more deeply penetrated.
Of other peculiarities exhibited in this region our author gives a vivid
account, and it requires all our faith in his accuracy to have
confidence in the following description of the famous Bad Lands, the
scene of so much Scientific search:

    The ground is covered with fragments of the bones of animals
    and reptiles, and the man must indeed be insensible who can
    pass unmoved through these most magnificent burying-grounds
    of animals extinct before the advent of his race.

    Almost everywhere throughout the whole length and breadth of
    the plains are found, in greater or less profusion, animal
    remains, fossils, shells, and petrifactions. Bones are very
    numerous and in great variety, from the saurian and mastodon
    to the minutest reptile, ranging in point of time from the
    remotest ages to the present day.

[Footnote O: "_The Plains of the Great West and their Inhabitants._" By
(Lieutenant-Colonel) RICHARD IRVING DODGE. With an Introduction by
William Blackmore. Illustrated. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons.]

His description of other features of this vast region is full of
interest. The two remarkable belts of forest, called the cross timbers,
stretching for a hundred miles through a trackless country, but not
increasing their width beyond their normal eight to twelve miles; the
extraordinary rivers, half sand, half water, the mazes of which confound
the Indian, usually so acute in the field; the sand streams, which
repeat in that material the puzzle of the cross timbers, and are even
more inexplicable. While the desert does not narrow the cross timber
belts, nor water widen them, the wind seems to have no effect on these
sand streams, though the material that composes them is so light as to
rise on every puff of air. Like the cross timbers, the sand streams
pursue their way across the country, regarding neither wet nor dry, hill
nor stream. Their origin lies in forces not yet known, and though they
may seem to be the sport of existing conditions, they really maintain
themselves indifferent to their surroundings. Things like these prove
that Americans need not go to the Sahara for novel aspects of nature.
Our author has a quick perception of what is striking in these scenes,
and describes them in vigorous and pictorial language.

Colonel Dodge is one of the most noted hunters in our army, and his
descriptions of the chase deserve to rank with those of Cummings, Baker,
and other great African sportsmen. It is true our country does not
afford the hunter such a slaughter field as South Africa has been. A few
animals have increased on our soil to such an extent as to afford at
certain seasons opportunities for unlimited slaughter. But the past five
years have seen such destruction of the last of these--the buffalo--that
wholesale killing is no longer possible on any ground the white man is
suffered to visit. Three years more will carry us to the end of the
decade, and probably of the buffalo hunt as it has been in the past.
About five years ago a change came over the pursuit of this animal. He
began to be killed for his hide alone, and the results are almost
incredible. Colonel Dodge shows that in three years no less than
4,373,730 buffalo were killed by whites and Indians. It is evidently
impossible for any animal, bringing forth but one at a birth, to
maintain its increase against such heedless destruction. The present
winter has witnessed what is probably the last grand attack upon these
animals, as they took refuge in the sheltering mountains of northwestern
Texas from the cold and snow-covered plains. Very soon the noblest prey
of the sportsman on this continent will be one of his rarest prizes.
Colonel Dodge does not lack the usual hunter's fund of anecdote. His own
adventures are modestly told, and when "seven antelope and a fine dog"
are bagged with one shot, the story is credited (with the Colonel's
guarantee) to an anonymous "old hunter"! We have said that the plains do
not rival the African field in quantity of game, but the dimensions of
two separate "bags," shot in successive years, shows how great even in
this country the rewards of the chase may be. In 1872 five gentlemen, of
whom Colonel Dodge was one, bagged 1,262 head, and next year four shot
1,141 head on the same ground, and the author thinks "the whole world
can be safely challenged to offer a greater variety of game."

But interesting as the chase is in our author's hands, the most
important part of the book is that in which the Indians are described
and discussed. To one who knows the unanimity of army opinion concerning
the much debated Indian question in the West, it is almost unnecessary
to say that Colonel Dodge wishes to see the tribes transferred to the
sole control of the War Department, treaty-making stopped at once,
discipline introduced, the vagabond whites eliminated from the tribes,
and the never-ceasing stream of outrages stopped. These opinions, which
the author shares with the Western community at large, are founded on a
very intimate knowledge of the Indians, and while they are invaluable as
the testimony of so competent an authority, they must yield in immediate
interest to the very vivid picture which the author gives of Indian life
and his estimate of Indian character. While what he says is not novel,
and could hardly be novel after the many thousands of works on the same
subject, his views are based on his own observation, and the facts are
presented with so much force that we gain a new idea of the American
savage. His essential moral characteristic is his love of cruelty. What
the savage thinks about in the frequent and long continued seasons of
idle solitude, it has long puzzled the ethnologist to discover. Colonel
Dodge says that a large part of the Indian's brooding thoughts are given
to the invention of modes of inflicting pain when he has the opportunity
to do so, and many of the camp fire discussions are upon suggestions for
cruelty. When the captive is brought in his tortures are not inflicted
in mere accordance with the momentary promptings of a brutal nature.
They may have been invented years before in some far distant camp, in
the profoundest peace, or may be copied from some noted example of
successful cruelty. They may have grown by one suggestion added to
another, among men whose knowledge of natural history includes a
marvellous perception of what parts of the frame are most sensitive to
pain. The Indian's cruelty is his pride. He gains credit by it among his
people, and he who invents a new torture is a leader. Cruelty is a merit
among these savages. It has rewards which make this passion one of the
most noticeable elements in their system of morality. No other author
has presented this aspect of Indian character with the clearness of
Colonel Dodge. His frequent illustrations show that it is no temporary
impulse, but a race characteristic carefully fostered by tradition and
perhaps by religion. But what position does all this give the Indian
among other races of men? Clearly he stands apart. The cannibal may
dance around the living victims who are soon to appear upon his table,
and the prisoner may be made to grace his conqueror's triumph, or the
altar of his conqueror's god, at any cost of suffering to himself, but
no other race, savage or civilized, has ever been shown to cultivate
cruelty for its own sake as the American Indian does. It is not from
fear, revenge, hate, or any other extraneous cause that he studies so
fondly and long over the means of giving pain. Cruelty is a thing to be
enjoyed for itself. The author has spoken with such plainness upon the
position of captive women in the hands of Indians, that we fear his book
will be objected to in just those quarters where its revelations are
most likely to do good. There is one thing which we wish he had made
clear--whether the brutality shown toward captive women is a practice
which has grown among the Cheyennes since they were driven from their
old home, or whether that has always been their mode of procedure. In
some quarters this particular brutality has been spoken of as the
outgrowth of their sufferings at the hands of the whites.

Colonel Dodge's book shows a rare combination of acute observation, long
experience, and the spirit of good fellowship. It is one of the best
books of hunting we know of, the best book ever written about the
plains, and its pictures and anecdotes of hunting life and Indian
fighting are a faithful reproduction of the peculiar conditions to be
found only on our great plains, with the anomalous relations of the
civilized and barbarous races that haunt them. The publishers have
illustrated it liberally. The Indian portraits are worthy of especial
mention for the minute accuracy which makes them ethnological examples
of unusual value.

       *     *     *     *     *

The zoölogical collections described in the fifth volume of Reports,
Survey west of the Hundredth Meridian,[P] were all obtained in that
zoölogical province known as the "Campestrian region," from the great
plains which it includes. There the animal colors are pale and tend
toward uniformity, corresponding to the low rainfall of from three to
twenty inches per year. In this peculiarity, and also in comparison with
the surrounding more humid regions, the district of country in which the
Government surveys are now carried on sustains the general theory that
coloration in animals is closely dependent on rainfall, a humid
atmosphere serving to cloak the sun's rays and preserve the natural dyes
(mostly organic) from bleaching out. Dr. Yarrow thinks that the entirely
rainless parts of this vast Campestrian region may ultimately deserve
recognition as a separate zoölogical province. The observations made as
to the mimicry of color which some animals, especially reptiles, exert
or suffer lead him to believe that "a law may yet be formulated in this
respect which will equally apply to all classes of animals." This
mimicry was especially noticed in serpents and lizards found near red
sandstone deposits, the well-known little _Phrynosoma_, or horned toad,
being greenish gray, nearly white, or deep red, as it was found on the
plain, the alkali flat, or the sandstone soil. But however profound the
change, the skin returned to its normal color within a day or two after
removal from the determining locality. In regard to the rattlesnake, we
have the welcome information that it is apparently decreasing in
numbers, and the less agreeable fact that with other serpents, it
principally frequents the neighborhood of settlements. The collections
of all kinds made by the explorers prove to be unexpectedly perfect in
spite of the rapidity with which they are forced to move, and losses by
fire and railroad accident. The report upon these collections is drawn
up with the care and thoroughness that are such creditable features of
recent American official work. A copious bibliography and synonomy is
attached to the descriptions of species. The allotment of reports is as
follows: Geographical Distribution, Dr. H. C. Yarrow; Mammals, Dr.
Elliott Coues and Dr. Yarrow; Birds, H. W. Henshaw; Batrachians and
Reptiles, Dr. Yarrow; Fishes, Prof. E. D. Cope and Dr. Yarrow; Insects,
E. T. Cresson, E. Norton, T. L. Mead, R. H. Stretch, C. R. Osten-Sacken,
H. Ulke, R. P. Uhler, Cyrus Thomas, H. A. Hagen; Mollusca, Dr. Yarrow.
These names show how carefully the head of the survey, Lieutenant
Wheeler, has sought assistance in the important work of classification.
But these are by no means all from whom he and his assistants
acknowledge service. The list given in the preface numbers more than
forty persons, and includes the best known specialists in this country.
Forty-five plates, colored when necessary, accompany the text. In every
respect the report is worthy the important survey from which it
emanates.

[Footnote P: "_Report upon Geographical and Geological Explorations and
Surveys West of the Hundredth Meridian_," in charge of First Lieutenant
GEORGE M. WHEELER. Vol. V., Zoölogy.]

       *     *     *     *     *

Though it is now quite common to find the life of two or even three
continents mingled in one web of fiction, few writers make so close a
subjective study of the immigrant's experiences as Mr. Boyesen has done
in his "Tales from Two Hemispheres."[Q] In fact he stands almost alone
in this field, and for a good reason; he is a participant where others
are onlookers. We are often told of the impression American ladies make
on foreign gentlemen, but rarely receive an analysis of it or are
offered even an attempt to analyze it. And yet this appears to be one of
the most promising exhibitions of human feeling ever studied. The
intercourse of the sexes, necessarily the subject of all romance, may
obviously have its situations heightened in every way by the
juxtaposition of two races, two diverse educations, and two opposite
moral systems, conjointly with the customary incidents of love-making.
Our author is fully alive to his opportunity, and, short as his tales
are, they bristle with dramatic scenes, and have an element of the
mythical and legendary in them, even when they are removed from such
professedly mystical subjects as he has treated in "Asathor's
Vengeance." Even in drawing-room scenes in New York the love-making is
ideal and romantic instead of calculating or passionate, as the current
novel commonly paints it. This mode of treatment implies that the tales
are either pathetic or fanciful, and in Mr. Boyesen's hands they are all
pathetic. He shows unusual power in this style of writing, and has the
natural and quiet humor which it demands. But there is a rudeness in the
construction and language of all of these stories which sometimes blinds
the reader to the really delicate insight into human feeling displayed
in them. The author writes like one who has the conception of what he
wants to do, but not yet the full command of the means. But this is a
fault that practice cures, and we trust Mr. Boyesen will continue his
studies in this essentially novel and peculiarly promising field of
literature.

[Footnote Q: "_Tales from Two Hemispheres._" By HJALMAR HJORTH BOYESEN.
Boston: James R. Osgood & Co.]

--In "Captain Mago"[R] we have a kind of book which with proper
attention may be made extremely interesting and valuable. It is an
attempt to reconstruct the life of three thousand years ago, not merely
among the Phoenicians, but in many other countries. Under the guise of
an expedition sent by the King of Tyre to Tarshish for the purpose of
collecting materials for the Jewish temple which King David was then
planning, we are taken to Judæa, Egypt, Crete, Italy, Spain, France,
England, and Africa. Such an expedition of course gives the author an
opportunity to present a panoramic view of the civilization in those
countries thirty centuries ago. We cannot say that he has performed the
task well. He dwells too much upon what he imagines to be the language
and conversation of the ancients and too little on those material facts
in their life which can be proved or plausibly imagined from the remains
of it which we have gathered. Ancient habits are but very obscurely
exhibited in the rude tools, the fragments of village houses, the
necklace of the Man of Mentone, the whistles and other toys of the
caves, the funereal fireplaces, and similar objects, but they are much
more plainly discernible than are the peculiarities of speech which must
have made up the bulk of daily conversation among our ancestors. A
reconstruction of ancient life based on a good knowledge of these
objects is likely to be more instructive and real than one that depends
for its force on a fanciful conception of their _thouing_ and _theeing_,
their love-making, and what oaths they swore. In fact, real service
could be done to "popular" science by a book that should exhibit our
remote forefathers as we really know them, and not attempting to go
beyond that point. Difficult as it will necessarily be to make such an
undertaking successful, we have no doubt that it will one day be
accomplished. "Captain Mago," though falling far short even of
excellence in this field, is nevertheless an interesting and peculiar
book.

[Footnote R: "_The Adventures of Captain Mago_; or, A Phoenician
Expedition B.C. 1000." By LEON CAHUN. Translated by Ellen E. Frewer.
Illustrated. New York: Scribner, Armstrong & Co.]

--The defect of "Captain Mago" is that its author has endeavored to
reconstruct from remains of a purely literary kind the life of a time
which was antecedent to the most of our oldest literature. Another
author, Mr. Mahaffy, has had great success in a similar field because he
chose for reconstruction a society which has left literary monuments of
a very varied character and great abundance. His "Social Life in Greece"
and other works about the ancient Greeks were written before he ever saw
that historic country, and yet he tells us in his last work,[S] written
after a personal visit and stay of some time, that his former writings
were sufficiently true to the Greece of to-day to deceive living Greeks
into the belief that he had been intimately acquainted with their
landscapes and familiar customs. Mr. Mahaffy's "Rambles" among modern
Greeks are a very interesting finish to his idealizations of their
ancestors. It is comforting to know that after all her spoliations the
country is still so rich in remains of ancient art as to retain more
fine and pure specimens of the best work than are to be found in all the
rest of the world. Very little is done toward uncovering and nothing
toward restoring these sculptures, for the Greeks are jealous of
foreigners and unable or not sufficiently interested to do this
themselves. They are willing to allow others to do the work, but Greece
must have all the profit. Still, there the works lie, and may be
recovered at some future day. We may even be comforted to think they are
well covered with soil, for the present inhabitants of the country, with
exquisite barbarity that their ancestors could not have practised, use
the standing monuments of art as a mark for pistol practice! Another
point in which they show a constitutional divergence from their
forefathers is in the singular barrenness that has fallen upon their
women. Once their land teemed with a native-born population. Now the
household remains so long childless that it is very common to find the
wife's mother a permanent member of the household, being retained for
companionship! Even the mature family contains but few children, and
this in the best agricultural parts of the country. While these
differences exist the author is not at a loss to find strange
resemblances. The yellow hair and fair complexion, the forms which are
even now types of the same race that stood for the old statues, the
language, and a multitude of other things prove that the old race
continues in purity and that Greece is not now filled with a mere
mixture of Turks, Albanians, and Sclaves. Our author has a poor opinion
of the Greek's capacity for government, and likens them to the Irish. He
thinks that both these races are constitutionally incapable of
government, and need subjugation by a foreigner. In this characteristic
he finds a strong resemblance between the modern and the ancient Greek,
for both have suffered personal jealousy to outweigh the strongest
promptings of patriotism. Mr. Mahaffy shows himself to be as able as an
observer as he is as an historian.

[Footnote S: "_Rambles and Studies in Greece._" By J. P. MAHAFFY.
Macmillan & Co.]

--The peculiar character of De Quincey's work gives unusual opportunity
for such a volume of selections as this, published under the untasteful
name of "Beauties."[T] He had all the mental power required for
sustained efforts in composition, though his plans for such works were
always defeated by physical weakness. His productions, therefore, though
incomplete, are not those of a literary trifler. His genius and methods
seem to be especially suited to the tastes of the present day, for he
excelled in the qualities that make the professional magazinist: great
learning, research, and acuteness, combined with a humor that sports
most waywardly through everything he wrote, a vivid fancy, a wonderful
use of words, and a style which even in its faults exhibits the needs of
periodical literature. He was, perhaps, more exactly fitted to serve the
world in its chosen field of current publications than any other man who
has written for it. Were he living now he would be acknowledged the
prince of the nebulous gentlemen who occupy easy chairs, gather in
contributors' clubs, and fill up "editors' baskets" with their
effusions. We have additional respect for the somewhat chopped up
productions of these gentlemen, after reading the numerous volumes that
bear his name, for there we find how much of every sort of literary good
they can contain. The editor of these selections is a lucky man, for his
work has the merit, rare among such books, of being thoroughly good in
itself. He has with excellent judgment given us somewhat of
autobiography, somewhat of the rare and indescribable dream life of De
Quincey, and somewhat of his tales, essays, and critiques. The character
of his author's writings relieves these morsels from the air of
incompleteness and decapitation which so often attaches to selections.
What he has given us is not all of De Quincey, but each chapter is
complete in itself. Selections usually repel us. We cannot join in the
argument so often found in prefaces to such works, that the reading of
them may lead to the reading of the author's whole works. On the
contrary, we are of that class to whom the cutting up of a good author
is apt to seem like vivisection--necessary, perhaps, but revolting. This
book, however, does not leave such an impression. On laying it down we
wonder why we are not constantly reading the great essayist, the
precursor of the literary spirit of our own times, probably a better
example than any now living of the many virtues demanded from the
popular writer.

[Footnote T: "_Beauties Selected from the Writings of Thomas De
Quincey._" New York: Hurd & Houghton.]

       *     *     *     *     *

Under the editorship of Mr. John Austin Stevens we may look for a
valuable and permanent publication in the "Magazine of American History,
with Notes and Queries," of which A. S. Barnes & Co. are the publishers.
The position of the editor as librarian of the New York Historical
Society will, or at all events should, be an additional source of
strength to the publication. Experience shows that literary undertakings
which possess more merit than popularity can derive great advantages
from the official countenance of societies pursuing allied subjects of
investigation. Properly managed, the two modes of obtaining union in
action can be made to help each other materially. This hint will perhaps
be considered not amiss since the pamphlet, printed with the neatness
characteristic of such works, which lies before us, is but a specimen
and preliminary number, which is to be followed by monthly issues in
quarto form, at $5 yearly, if sufficient support is obtained. The editor
says: "Each number will contain: I. An original article on some point of
American history from a recognized and authoritative pen. II. A
biographical sketch of some character of historic interest. III.
Original documents, diaries, and letters. IV. Reprints of rare
documents. V. Notes and queries in the well-known English form. VI.
Reports of the proceedings of the New York Historical Society. VII.
Notices of historical publications." He also promises to keep it free
from sectional prejudices and "from personality and controversy in any
form." He has ready for publication a large number of interesting old
manuscripts contributed by historians and collectors, and it is to be
hoped his attempt to establish a periodical for historical literature
will be sustained.




BOOKS RECEIVED.


"_Materialism and Theology._" JAMES MARTINEAU, LL.D. G. P. Putnam's
Sons.

"_Waverley Novels_," Riverside Edition, "Heart of Midlothian." Hurd &
Houghton.

_The Same._ "Bride of Lammermoor."

_The Same._ "The Monastery."

"_Footsteps of the Master._" HARRIET B. STOWE. J. B. Ford & Co.

"_Functions of the Brain._" Illustrated. D. FERRIER, M.D. G. P. Putnam's
Sons.

"_The Plains of the Great West._" Illustrated. Lieutenant Colonel
RICHARD I. DODGE. G. P. Putnam's Sons.

"_The Sons of Godwin._" A Tragedy. WILLIAM LEIGHTON, Jr. J. B.
Lippincott & Co.

"_Personal Relations Between Librarian and Readers._" SAM. S. GREEN.
Chas. Hamilton, Worcester, Mass.

"_Special Report on Worcester Free Library._" The same.

"_Tales from Two Hemispheres._" H. H. BOYESEN. Jas. R. Osgood & Co.

"_The Problems of Problems._" CLARK BRADEN. Chase & Hall, Cincinnati.

"_Archology_; or, The Science of Government." V. BLAKESLEE. A. Roman &
Co.

"_Woman as a Musician._" FANNY RAYMOND RITTER. Ed. Schuberth & Co.

"_Vivisection._" Copp Clark & Co., Toronto.

"_Cholera Facts of the Last Year._" E. MCCLELLAN, M.D. Richmond &
Louisville Medical Journal office.

"_Art Journal._" Photo-Engraving Co., New York.

"_History of the City of New York._" Parts 5 to 10. Mrs. M. J. LAMB. A.
S. Barnes & Co.

"_The Magazine of American History._" JNO. AUSTIN STEVENS, editor. A. S.
Barnes & Co.

"_National Quarterly Review._" D. A. GORTON, editor.

"_National Survey West of 100th Meridian._" Vol. 5, Zoölogy. Dr. H. C.
YARROW and others. Government Printing Office.

"_Catalogue Siamese Exhibit International Exhibition._" J. B. Lippincott
& Co.

"_Planetary Meteorology, Mansill's Almanac of._" R. MANSILL. R.
Crampton, Rock Island.

"_Notes on Assaying._" R. DE P. RICKETTS. Art Printing Establishment.

"_Mental Powers of Insects._" A. S. PACKARD, Jr. Estes & Lauriat.

"_Beauties of De Quincey._" Hurd & Houghton.

"_The Convicts._" B. AUERBACH. H. Holt & Co.

"_Philosophical Discussions._" C. WRIGHT. H. Holt & Co.

"_The Sons of Goodwin._" W. LEIGHTON. J. B. Lippincott & Co.

"_Rambles and Studies in Greece._" J. P. MAHAFFY. Macmillan & Co.

"_Mother and Daughter._" F. S. VERDI, M. D. J. B. Ford & Co.

"_Marie._ A Story of Russian Lore." MARIE H. DE ZIELINSKI. Jansen,
McClurg & Co.

"_The Barton Experiment._" By the author of "Helen's Babies." G. P.
Putnam's Sons.




NEBULÆ.


--It would seem that we must return to the old fashion of strong boxes,
old stockings, and cracked pipkins as the receptacles of our savings. As
to savings banks and trust companies, and life insurance companies, the
revelations of the last few months go to show that they do anything but
save; that they are no longer to be trusted, and that they ensure
nothing but total loss to those who put their money into them. Ere long
it will be said of a young man that he was poor but honest, although he
had the misfortune to have a father who was a director in several
important financial institutions. The state of affairs in this respect
is frightful; and it frightens. The financial panic has been followed by
a moral panic which is really as much more deplorable than its
predecessor as moral causes are more radical in their operation and more
enduring than those which are merely material. Confidence is gone. How
it is to be restored is a problem far more perplexing than how to revive
drooping trade. For that the real wealth of the country, never greater
than it is now and constantly increasing, must bring about sooner or
later. But if men of wealth and of fair reputation are no longer to be
trusted, what is the use of saving, to put money into a box where it
gains nothing and where thieves break through and steal? Robbery seems
to be the fashion; on the one hand masked burglars with pistols at your
heads and gags in the mouths of your wife and children, and on the other
hypocritical, lying, false-swearing, thieving scoundrels who get your
money under fair pretences, and because of your trust in their
characters and good faith, and then waste it in speculations and in
luxurious living. Of the two, the burglars seem to be rather the more
respectable. It is said, on good authority, that the West India slaves
of a past generation could be trusted to carry bags of gold from one
part of the Spanish Main to another, and that they were constantly so
trusted with entire impunity. They would kidnap, and on occasion stab or
cut a throat; but if they were trusted, they would not break their
faith. The honesty of the Turkish porters is so well known that it has
become almost proverbial. Does not the honesty of these pirates and
pagans put to shame the Christians who with the professions and the
faces of Pharisees "devour widows' houses"?

--For as to the business of life insurance, savings banks, and trust
companies, it is somewhat more, or surely somewhat other, than mere
business. And so those who practise it and profit by it profess that it
is. A life insurance company is a grand combination
philanthropico-financial corporation whose motto is, "Cast thy bread
upon the waters, and after many days thou shalt receive it again." But
the truth of the matter turns out to be that if you cast your bread upon
the waters, the chances are that you will see it devoured before your
eyes by financial sharks. One case in point has come directly to our
knowledge. A gentleman, a Government officer, who has a moderate salary,
with little or no hope of acquiring property, insured his life twenty
years or more ago in what was thought a good company. His premium was
always promptly paid even in the flush times of the war and afterward,
when the fixed salaries of public officers lost more than half their
purchasing power. Within the last few months he has suddenly found that
his policy is not worth the paper on which it is magnificently printed.
But worse than this: within the last few years, as age has crept upon
him, there has come with it a disease which is incurable although he may
live for some time longer. Now, however, he cannot get his life insured
at all; no company will take his life; (it is a rueful jest to say that
the company in question _did_ take his life); and he has the prospect
before him of a widow left entirely without provision, although for
nearly a quarter of a century he and she stinted themselves to provide
against such a contingency. Meantime the officers of the company lived
luxuriously, and used the money in their hands for speculation, and in
living which if not riotous, was at least shameless and dishonest. And
they were all men of reputation, were selected for their positions
because it was thought that men of their position and habits of life and
outward bearing were incorruptible. Have they not devoured that
prospective widow's house? If He who condemned the hypocritical
Pharisees of old were on the earth now, would he not pronounce Woe upon
them? And much would they care about His condemnation if they could get
their commissions, and their pickings and stealings, and live in
splendid houses, and be known as the managers of an institution that
handled millions of dollars yearly, and whose offices were gorgeous with
many-colored marbles, and gilding, and inlaid wood, and rich carpets!

And like their predecessors in the devouring of widows' houses for a
pretence, they make long prayers. They, we say; but of course we do not
mean all; for there are honest officers of life insurance companies, and
even sound companies; but the number of both is shown day after day to
be less and less; and when we think that those that we hear about are
only they which have reached the end of their tether in fraud, perjury,
and swindling, the prospect before us is one of the most disheartening
that could be presented to a reflecting people. For remember, these
defaulting, false-swearing life insurance and savings bank officers are
picked men, and that their dishonest practices are from their very
nature deliberate, slow of execution, and that in fact they have gone on
for years. It is no clutch of drowning men at financial straws that we
have here; it is the regular "confidence game" played on an enormous
scale by men who are regarded as the most respectable that can be found
in the whole community. They are vestrymen, and deacons, and elders, and
grave and reverend signors, and these men have deliberately used and
abused the confidence not only of the community in general, but of their
friends and acquaintance, to "convey" in Nym's phrase, to steal in plain
English, money which was brought within their reach because of their
pretended high principle and their philanthropic motives. For, we
repeat, it must constantly be kept in mind as an aggravation of these
wrongs, that life insurance companies and savings banks are essentially
and professedly benevolent institutions. They are, and they openly
profess to be, chiefly for the benefit of widows and children. The man
who takes to himself the money of a life insurance company or of a
savings bank is not a mere thief and swindler; he robs the widow and the
fatherless; he takes his place among those who are accursed of all men;
and moreover, in all these cases he is a hypocrite of the deepest dye.

--In any case, however, there is reason for fearing that the business of
life insurance has in the main long been rotten, even when it has not
been deliberately corrupt. Professedly and originally a benevolent
contrivance by which men of moderate incomes could year by year make
provision for wives and children who might otherwise be left destitute,
it was reasonable and right to expect that the business of life
insurance would be conducted upon the most economical principles and in
the simplest and most unpretending fashion; that there would have been
only as much expenditure as was absolutely necessary for the proper
conduct of the business; and that safety for the insured would have been
the first if not the only ruling motive with the insurers. And such
indeed was life insurance in the beginning. But by and by it was found
that there was "money in it," and the sleek, snug hypocrites that prey
upon society under the guise of philanthropy and religion began to swarm
around it. Life insurance companies began to have a host of officers;
they had "actuaries," whatever they may be, who, by whatever motives
they were actuated, contrived and put forth statements which to the
common mind were equally plausible and bewildering; they entered into
bitter rivalry with each other in their philanthropic careers; they had
agents who went abroad over the land in swarms, smooth-speaking,
shameless creatures who would say anything, promise anything so long as
they got their commissions; they published gorgeous pamphlets, tumid and
splendid with self-praise, and filled with tabular statements that
justified and illustrated the denying that there is nothing so
untrustworthy as facts, except figures; they contrived the "mutual"
plan, by which they made it appear to some men that they could insure
their own lives--which is much like a man's trying to hoist himself over
a fence by the straps of his boots--and yet these mutual officers,
benevolent creatures, were as eager to get business and as ready to pay
large commissions as if, poor, simple-minded souls, they had expected to
get rich by life insuring; and then they put up huge and enormously
expensive buildings, more like palaces than any others known to our
country. And all this came out of the pockets of those who are, with
cruel mockery, called the insured. It is the old story: ten cents to the
beneficiary and ninety cents to the agent through whose hands the money
passes. Is it not plain, merely from the grand scale and the large
pretence on which this life insurance business has been carried on of
late years, that it is rotten? It is a scheme for making money. Now,
making money is right enough; but when it is carried on under
philanthropic and benevolent pretences its tendency must naturally be,
as we have seen that it has been, to gross corruption and the most
heartless fraud.

       *     *     *     *     *

  The point of honor has been deemed of use
  To teach good manners and to curb abuse.

So wrote Cowper in his "Conversation," nearly a century ago, when
duelling was beginning to go out of fashion, even among men who did not
look upon it from a religious point of view. There is no doubt that the
passage which these lines introduce did much to bring the custom of
settling personal quarrels by single combat into disrepute. Cowper, the
moral poet _par excellence_ of the English language, attained this
eminence chiefly because he wrote, not like a fanatic, or a canting
pietist, but like a Christian gentleman and a man of sense. A man of
family, he thought and felt as a gentleman, and addressed himself to
gentlemen; and indeed, in his day poetry, at least of the quality that
he produced, had very few readers outside the pale of gentry. His view
of duelling is the one which now prevails in most communities of English
blood in all parts of the world. Germans and Frenchmen and the Latin
races generally still fight upon personal provocation, and in our late
slave States and among the rude and fierce men who guard and extend our
western borders, "misunderstandings" are settled by the bullet or the
knife, and if not on the spot, with the weapon at hand, then in a
regularly arranged duel in which the forms are entirely subordinate to
the essentials of a bloody and vindictive contest. With these
exceptions, however, duelling among the English-speaking people has come
to be regarded as both folly and crime. Nothing could evince more
strongly the change that has taken place in the moral sense of the
world; for to resent an insult by a challenge to fight, and to accept
such a challenge without a moment's hesitation, were once the highest
duties of a gentleman. There was a reason for this; and without
advocating or defending the practice of duelling, it may be questioned
whether that reason has entirely disappeared.

       *     *     *     *     *

--Our readers need not fear that we are about to defend or to palliate
the conduct of either of the parties to the recent affair which began in
Fifth Avenue in New York and ended on the Maryland border; but the fact
that that occurrence or series of occurrences has attracted the
attention of the whole country, makes it a proper occasion of remark
upon the questions involved in such encounters. And first we must set
aside the Cowper view of the subject, not in its conclusion, but in its
reasoning. For however Christian in sentiment and sound in its final
judgment the passage in the "Conversation" may be, its author's position
is not logically impregnable. For it rests upon the assumption embodied
in the couplet--

  Amoral, sensible, and well-bred man
  Will not affront me, and no other can.

But if this be true, it follows that a man cannot be insulted, which is
an absurdity; for men are insulted, as we all know--and we are happy if
we do not know it by experience. Moreover, men are insulted more
frequently where the "code of honor" does not prevail than where it
does; for that code is of use; and if it does not teach good manners, it
certainly does curb abuse. The question to be decided is whether in the
teaching of manners and the curbing of abuse by the alternative and
arbitrament of bloody combat we are not paying too high a price for what
we gain. To consider the example which is the occasion of our remark. A
man is met in the street by another with whom he has been upon terms of
social intercourse, and is there publicly whipped. He faces his
assailant, resists, but is overcome because the assailant is the
stronger and the more dexterous. What shall he do? Submit quietly? That
may be Christian conduct; but whether it is good public policy, to say
nothing more, may at least be questioned; for it would place the greater
part of the community at the mercy of the strong brawling bullies. Two
courses are open to a person so assailed--either to place the matter in
the hands of the law, in a civil or a criminal suit, or to challenge the
assailant. In most cases it may be admitted that the former course is
the wiser and the better course. Where mere protection against personal
injury is sought a police justice and a police officer are the effective
as well as the lawful means. But there is something else to be
considered. The mere personal injury may be slight, and there may be no
fear of its repetition, and yet there is a wrong done that may rankle
deeper than a wound. Personal indignity is something that most men of
character and spirit feel more than bodily pain or than loss of money or
of property. It is a sentimental grievance, and therefore one which the
law cannot provide against or punish. It cannot be estimated in damages;
none the less, therefore, but rather the more, does the man who suffers
it take it to heart; none the less, therefore, but rather the more, do
gentlemen set up barriers against it which, although invisible, and not
even expressed, if indeed they are expressible in words, are more
forbidding in their frown, more difficult of assault than the regular
bulwarks of the law. It must be repeated that this wrong is not to be
measured by the bodily injury or the bodily pain that is inflicted. Two
men may be boxing or fencing, and one may severely injure the other; but
no sense of wrong accompanies the injury, and that not because no injury
was intended, but because no offence was meant; whereas the flirt of a
kid glove across the face, or a word, may inflict a wrong that if not
atoned for or expiated, may rankle through a man's whole life. To
attempt to set aside or to do away with this feeling is quite useless:
as well attempt to set aside or to do away with human nature. It is this
feeling that has been at the bottom of most duels since duels passed out
of use as a mode of determining guilt or innocence, or of deciding
questions as to property, or position, or title. In the sixteenth,
seventeenth, and eighteenth centuries duels were chiefly the remedy for
wounded honor, as they are when they are rarely fought nowadays. True
there was the duel fought between two gentlemen "to prevent the
inconvenience of their both addressing the same lady"; but the duel for
that reason pure and simple was always comparatively rare, as, owing to
the infirmity of human nature, the agreement in opinion of the lady and
the disagreement as to the disposition to be made of her were almost
sure to take the form of a more reasonable if not more deadly cause of
quarrel.

--But society--that is, society in which Anglo-Saxon modes of thought
and feeling prevail--says that no matter what the provocation, or how
great the sense of wrong, the duel shall not be; it has been made a
crime in some if not in most of such communities even to send a
challenge. This is done on grounds of public policy and of morality, and
not, as some persons seem to think, because killing in a duel is murder.
Murder is more than a mere killing, and is in its essence entirely
inconsistent with the fact that the person killed voluntarily placed
himself, and generally with much trouble and at great inconvenience, in
the way of his death. The duel is in fact a sort of _hari-kari_, or
happy release, as our Japanese friends have well phrased it, but it is
with the coöperation of a second party who voluntarily places himself in
similar peril, the happy release being in both cases from the stigma of
dishonor. This is shown very clearly by the distinction which is drawn
in general estimation between the man who challenges because he has
suffered an insult or an injury to his family honor, and one who does so
from a feeling of revenge and with the intent to rid himself of a hated
opponent, as for example in the case of Aaron Burr in his duel with
Alexander Hamilton. That was more than half a century ago, when there
were no such laws against duelling as now exist; but Burr, although he
rid himself of his hated rival on what was called the field of honor,
was from that day a degraded, detested, ruined man. If Hamilton had
offered him a personal indignity, or had injured him in his family
relations, the result of the duel would have added nothing to the weight
of disrepute under which Burr was already suffering. The whole world
recognizes this distinction, and there is hardly a man whose breeding
and habits make him what is rightly called a gentleman in the full sense
of the term, who, however his judgment may condemn the duellist who
fights because of an insult or an injury to family honor, does not feel
a certain sympathy with him. Notwithstanding the teachings of
Christianity, and the example of its founder as to the patient suffering
of indignity, notwithstanding the law, we all, or most of us, have the
feeling that Barclay of Wry's battle-tried comrade had when he saw his
old friend and heroic commander openly insulted by a throng of
swashbucklers in the streets of Aberdeen, because he had become a
Quaker, and which Whittier has expressed with such spirit in his poem on
the subject, which is one of the few truly admirable ballads of modern
days (although its author does not so class it), and which is, we are
inclined to think, the most admirable of them all:

  Woe's the day, he sadly said,
  With a slowly shaking head,
    And a look of pity:
  Wry's honest lord reviled,
  Mock of knave and sport of child,
    In his own good city.

  Speak the word, and master mine,
  As we charged on Tilly's line
    And his Walloon lancers,
  Smiting through their midst, we'll teach
  Civil look and decent speech
    To these boyish prancers.

--What then is to be done? for the question is a serious one. We all
feel that personal indignity is of all wrongs the hardest one to bear;
we know that it is a wrong of a kind that cannot be redressed by law;
and yet we restrain men from the only redress, "satisfaction," as it is
called, that human ingenuity has bean able to devise, and with which
human nature, of the unregenerate sort, is satisfied. We cannot expect
all men to behave like members of the Society of Friends. All men have
not proved their courage and high spirit like Barclay of Wry, who

                   ----stood
  Ankle deep in Lutzen's blood
    With the great Gustavus.

We cannot compel all men to be Christians; and yet we would compel them
by law to bear insult as if they were Christians and great captains
turned Quakers. We can do this, which thus far society has neglected to
do: we can put a social ban upon the man who deliberately offers a
personal indignity to another. This should be a social duty. Let it be
understood, according to one of those silent social laws which are the
most binding of all laws because the sheriff cannot enforce them, that
the man who flourishes a horsewhip over another's head, or who uses his
tongue as a scourge with like purpose, or who offers personal indignity
of any kind, insults society as well as his victim, and is not to be
pardoned until he has made the amend to the injured party, and there
would soon be an end of provocation to duelling, except that which
touches the family, and that cannot be done away with until men have so
developed morally and intellectually that they see that a man's honor is
not in the keeping of a woman, not in that of any other person than
himself, not even his wife. Her conduct may indeed involve his dishonor,
if he is what used to be called a wittol, but even then _his_ dishonor
is because of his own disgrace. Only then can we reconcile the making of
a challenge a felony with the feeling that a man who has had a personal
indignity put upon him has suffered the deepest wrong he could be called
upon to bear, yet a wrong which society fails to right while it forbids
him to seek the only reparation.

--That reparation is defined, if not prescribed, by the code of honor,
as to which code there seems to be a very general misapprehension. The
purpose of the code is this, that no gentleman shall offer a personal
indignity to another except with the certainty of its being at the risk
of his life. If society would provide a remedy or preventive that would
operate like this risk, the code would soon pass absolutely out of
practice and into oblivion. It is generally supposed that the code is a
very bloodthirsty law, and that those who acknowledge it and act upon it
are "sudden and quick in quarrel," lovers of fighting, revengeful and
implacable, and that the code gives them the means of gratifying their
murderous or combative propensities. No notion of it could be more
erroneous; the misconception is like that which supposes military men to
be desirous of using arms on slight provocation; whereas the contrary is
the case. No men are so reluctant to begin fighting as thoroughbred
soldiers; for they know what it means and to what end it must be carried
if it is once begun. The code has been reduced to writing, and by a
"fire-eating" South Carolinian, so that we can see just how bloodthirsty
it is. It provides first that if an insult be received in public it
should not be resented or noticed there, out of respect to those
present, except in case of a blow or the like, because this is insult to
the company which did not originate with the person receiving it; that a
challenge should never be sent in the first instance because "that
precludes all negotiation," and that in the note asking explanation and
reparation the writer should "cautiously avoid attributing to the
adverse party any improper motive"; that the aggrieved party's second
should manage the whole affair even before a challenge is sent, because
he "is supposed to be cool and collected, and his friends' feelings are
more or less irritated" ["more or less" here is excellent good as
expressive of the state of mind of a man so aggrieved that he is ready
to risk his life]; the second is to "use every effort to soothe and
tranquillize his principal," not to "see things in the aggravated light
in which he views them, but to extenuate the conduct of his adversary
whenever he sees clearly an opportunity to do so"; to "endeavor to
persuade him that there has been some misunderstanding in the matter,"
and to "check him if he uses opprobrious epithets toward his adversary";
"when an accommodation is tendered," the code says in a paragraph worthy
of the most respectful consideration, "never require too much; and if
the party offering the _amende honorable_ wishes to give a reason for
his conduct in the matter, do not, unless it is offensive to your
friend, refuse to receive it. By doing so you heal the breach more
effectively." Strangers may call upon you for your offices as second,
"for strangers are entitled to redress for wrongs as well as others, and
the rules of honor and of hospitality should protect them." The second
of the party challenged is also told, "Use your utmost efforts to allay
the excitement which your principal may labor under," to search
diligently into the origin of the misunderstanding, "for gentlemen
seldom insult each other unless they labor under some misapprehension or
mistake," and if the matter be investigated in the right spirit, it is
probable that "harmony will be restored." The other parts of the code
refer to the arrangements for and the etiquette of the hostile meeting,
of which we shall only notice the censure passed upon the seconds if
after either party is hit the fight is allowed to go on. The last
section implies, although it does not positively assert, that "every
insult may be compromised" without a hostile meeting, and it is directly
said that "the old opinion that a blow must require blood is of no
force; blows may be compromised in many cases." We do by no means
advocate the fighting of duels; but we must say that we cannot see in
this code the blood-thirstiness and the quarrel-seeking generally
attributed to it. On the contrary, all its instructions seem to tend
toward peacemaking, the restoration of harmony, the restraining of even
expressions of ill feeling. It does recognize as indisputable that an
insult must be atoned for, and if necessary, at the risk of life. That
necessity society can do away with by placing its ban upon the man who
insults another.

       *     *     *     *     *

--It is generally supposed that the "average American" beats the world
in his love of big titles, and in his use of them; but the freed
southern negro beats his white fellow citizen all hollow. We hear from
Texas of one who is Head Centre of a Lodge--exactly of what sort we
don't know, but we suppose that it must be a lodge in the wilderness or
perhaps, in Solomon's phrase, a lodge in a garden of cucumbers. This
cullud pusson will spend two months' wages to "report" at a grand
junction "jamboree" of his "lodge." The titles of the officers of these
associations are something wonderful. A negro office boy down there
asked leave of absence for a day to attend a meeting. "Why," said his
master, "Scip, I didn't know you belonged to a lodge." "Oh, yes, boss,"
replied Africanus, "Ise Supreme Grand King, an' Ise nowhar near de top
nuther." Who shall say that the abolition of slavery was not worth all
that it cost?




  Transcriber's Notes:

  Obvious punctuation errors corrected.

  Text changes:
  English Peerage: replaced "e.i." with "i.e."
    ..._i.e._ the mayor being...
  Misanthrope: replaced "acquintance" with "acquaintance"
    ...to renew her acquaintance with Miss Lucy...
  Wordsworth: Corrected "ta dè, kollomeleî" to "tà dè kollomeleî"
    The Greek word "k'autonomázei" appears in other editions as
      "k'antonomázei."
    Replaced "Jeffry" with "Jeffrey" ...Jeffrey looked for logical...
    Used =[text]= to indicate word typed with strike-out
      =Those= lips...
    Replaced "chearful" with "cheerful" ...Be wise and cheerful...
  Portrait: Open quote without close quote in poem retained;
    "Is thine that great,...
  Tinsel: Removed extra period: ...before I asked it.".
  Eastern: Corrected "Mediterannean" to "Mediterranean"
      ...superior fleet in the Mediterranean;...
    Added comma between "there there" ...In religion there, there are...
  Assja: Consolidated 'The young man smiled and answered, "Yes; we are
      Russians."' into one paragraph.
    Removed hyphen from "hemp-field" ...a hemp field of moderate size...
  Scientific: Added thought breaks between paragraphs at change of topic.
  Nebulæ: Added thought breaks between paragraphs at change of topic.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Galaxy, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GALAXY ***

***** This file should be named 35112-8.txt or 35112-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        https://www.gutenberg.org/3/5/1/1/35112/

Produced by Carol Ann Brown, Barbara Tozier, Bill Tozier
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
https://www.pgdp.net.


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
https://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at https://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
https://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at https://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit https://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: https://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     https://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
